Acylation of diverse carbohydrates occurs across all domains of life and can be catalysed by proteins with a membrane bound acyltransferase-3 (AT3) domain (PF01757). In bacteria, these proteins are essential in processes including symbiosis, resistance to viruses and antimicrobials, and biosynthesis of antibiotics, yet their structure and mechanism are largely unknown. In this study, evolutionary co-variance analysis was used to build a computational model of the structure of a bacterial O-antigen modifying acetyltransferase, OafB. The resulting structure exhibited a novel fold for the AT3 domain, which molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated is stable in the membrane. The AT3 domain contains 10 transmembrane helices arranged to form a large cytoplasmic cavity lined by residues known to be essential for function. Further molecular dynamics simulations support a model where the acyl-coA donor spans the membrane through accessing a pore created by movement of an important loop capping the inner cavity, enabling OafB to present the acetyl group close to the likely catalytic resides on the extracytoplasmic surface. Limited but important interactions with the fused SGNH domain in OafB are identified, and modelling suggests this domain is mobile and can both accept acyl-groups from the AT3 and then reach beyond the membrane to reach acceptor substrates. Together this new general model of AT3 function provides a framework for the development of inhibitors that could abrogate critical functions of bacterial pathogens. Explanation: enzymes active lipid cell binding protein we lipids also conserved structures have as activity studies lipase enzyme lipases found use not predicted models ligand our inhibitor bind small molecules may or how they were previously LipAsimilar other such We studied β fatty acylation sites substrate ability key residue mutants data has disease mutations more receptor activities role it into well complex systems human infection cells receptors lipoproteins associated drug discovery target against diseases mechanisms This two compounds high potential antibacterial peptides host pathogen's treatment infections? Finally results antibiotic inhibition using method improve understanding kinase phosphorylation
Honey bee ecology demands they make both rapid and accurate assessments of which flowers are most likely to offer them nectar or pollen. To understand the mechanisms of honey bee decision-making, we examined their speed and accuracy of both flower acceptance and rejection decisions. We used a controlled flight arena that varied both the likelihood of a stimulus offering reward and punishment and the quality of evidence for stimuli. We found that the sophistication of honey bee decision-making rivalled that reported for primates. Their decisions were sensitive to both the quality and reliability of evidence. Acceptance responses had higher accuracy than rejection responses and were more sensitive to changes in available evidence and reward likelihood. Fast acceptances were more likely to be correct than slower acceptances; a phenomenon also seen in primates and indicative that the evidence threshold for a decision changes dynamically with sampling time. To investigate the minimally sufficient circuitry required for these decision-making capacities, we developed a novel model of decision-making. Our model can be mapped to known pathways in the insect brain and is neurobiologically plausible. Our model proposes a system for robust autonomous decision-making with potential application in robotics. Explanation: bees wasants food foraging ant honeyspecies this information processing by process our ability but not as an on how social fruit pollinus studies data use (have such A) models approach The it results show animals detection / s behavior analysis methods may human complex systems study using provide different from when other Hymenoptera workers' In many hive help flies et floral resources assessment tools work important knowledge people well studied has research at humans performance large effect factors This insects collect? e learning processes do experiments environment where could future development organisms
Biguanides, including the world s most prescribed drug for type 2 diabetes, metformin, not only lower blood sugar, but also promote longevity in preclinical models. Epidemiologic studies in humans parallel these findings, indicating favorable effects of metformin on longevity and on reducing the incidence and morbidity associated with aging-related diseases. Despite this promise, the full spectrum of molecular effectors responsible for these health benefits remains elusive. Through unbiased screening in Caenorhabditis elegans, we uncovered a role for genes necessary for ether lipid biosynthesis in the favorable effects of biguanides. We demonstrate that biguanides prompt lifespan extension by stimulating ether lipid biogenesis. Loss of the ether lipid biosynthetic machinery also mitigates lifespan extension attributable to dietary restriction, target of rapamycin (TOR) inhibition, and mitochondrial electron transport chain inhibition. A possible mechanistic explanation for this finding is that ether lipids are required for activation of longevity-promoting, metabolic stress defenses downstream of the conserved transcription factor skn-1 / Nrf. In alignment with these findings, overexpression of a single, key, ether lipid biosynthetic enzyme, fard-1 / FAR1, is sufficient to promote lifespan extension. These findings illuminate the ether lipid biosynthetic machinery as a novel therapeutic target to promote healthy aging. Explanation: eat food energy metabolism et life worms survival signaling pathways regulation insulin cell extend fat cells diet obesity body fuel fatty acid an increase nutrient response protein kinase mammalian sir3 activity their may be such mechanisms beneficial metabolites improve heart disease human The fasting glucose levels can animals use calorie fuels our ability found exercise endurance capacity mitochondria oxidative long healthage flies gut bacteria nutrients feeding conditions have increased mice high foods eating benefit extends when caloric intake control gene expression regulate worm growth they could reduce from used diets improved yeast enzymes function were previously known how
Ecological relationships between bacteria mediate the services that gut microbiomes provide to their hosts. Knowing the overall direction and strength of these relationships is essential to learn how ecology scales up to affect microbiome assembly, dynamics, and host health. However, whether bacterial relationships are generalizable across hosts or personalized to individual hosts is debated. Here, we apply a robust, multinomial logistic-normal modeling framework to extensive time series data (5534 samples from 56 baboon hosts over 13 years) to infer thousands of correlations in bacterial abundance in individual baboons and test the degree to which bacterial abundance correlations are universal. We also compare these patterns to two human data sets. We find that, most bacterial correlations are weak, negative, and universal across hosts, such that shared correlation patterns dominate over host-specific correlations by almost twofold. Further, taxon pairs that had inconsistent correlation signs (either positive or negative) in different hosts always had weak correlations within hosts. From the host perspective, host pairs with the most similar bacterial correlation patterns also had similar microbiome taxonomic compositions and tended to be genetic relatives. Compared to humans, universality in baboons was similar to that in human infants, and stronger than one data set from human adults. Bacterial families that showed universal correlations in human infants were often universal in baboons. Together, our work contributes new tools for analyzing the universality of bacterial associations across hosts, with implications for microbiome personalization, community assembly, and stability, and for designing microbiome interventions to improve host health. Explanation: on communities have same species microbial taxa associated network this as systems can model organisms more microbes many studies microbiota an important but not yet known system well results networks The common disease related study intestinal commensal groups interactions may found some people association diseases relationship has higher animals models microbe genera those present us mechanisms complex other at infections group predict all types when they environment where individuals / nature it could previously healthy information through; -both ecological role pathogens ability bacterium 1% body sites dysbiosis Bapes ecosystem structure observed patients conditions infection potential life
Gamma oscillations are believed to underlie cognitive processes by shaping the formation of transient neuronal partnerships on a millisecond scale. These oscillations are coupled to the phase of breathing cycles in several brain areas, possibly reflecting local computations driven by sensory inputs sampled at each breath. Here, we investigated the mechanisms and functions of gamma oscillations in the piriform (olfactory) cortex of awake mice to understand their dependence on breathing and how they relate to local spiking activity. Mechanistically, we find that respiration drives gamma oscillations in the piriform cortex, which correlate with local feedback inhibition and result from recurrent connections between local excitatory and inhibitory neuronal populations. Moreover, respiration-driven gamma oscillations are triggered by the activation of mitral / tufted cells in the olfactory bulb and are abolished during ketamine / xylazine anesthesia. Functionally, we demonstrate that they locally segregate neuronal assemblies through a winner-take-all computation leading to sparse odor coding during each breathing cycle. Our results shed new light on the mechanisms of gamma oscillations, bridging computation, cognition, and physiology. Explanation: network model neurons firing rate is circuits information processing networks neural system this for γ frequency 1 cortical theta rhythm temporal dynamics may et as time an specific functional connectivity GABA synaptic current source signals drive coupling important function these circuit interactions neuron also have found different cell integrate into data high power respiratory timing auditory evoked response patterns associated signaling process communication key role it can be our rhythms large but not known complex s task related models more such mechanism other same behavior dependent learning novel higher level were previously responses when study show ability lung ventilation control
Asynchronous replication of chromosome domains during S phase is essential for eukaryotic genome function, but the mechanisms establishing which domains replicate early versus late in different cell types remain incompletely understood. Intercalary heterochromatin domains replicate very late in both diploid chromosomes of dividing cells and in endoreplicating polytene chromosomes where they are also underreplicated. Drosophila SNF2-related factor SUUR imparts locus-specific underreplication of polytene chromosomes. SUUR negatively regulates DNA replication fork progression; however, its mechanism of action remains obscure. Here, we developed a novel method termed MS-Enabled Rapid protein Complex Identification (MERCI) to isolate a stable stoichiometric native complex SUMM4 that comprises SUUR and a chromatin boundary protein Mod (Mdg4) -67. 2. Mod (Mdg4) stimulates SUUR ATPase activity and is required for a normal spatiotemporal distribution of SUUR in vivo. SUUR and Mod (Mdg4) -67. 2 together mediate the activities of gypsy insulator that prevent certain enhancer promoter interactions and establish euchromatin heterochromatin barriers in the genome. Furthermore, SuUR or mod (mdg4) mutations reverse underreplication of intercalary heterochromatin. Thus, SUMM4 can impart late replication of intercalary heterochromatin by attenuating the progression of replication forks through euchromatin / heterochromatin boundaries. Our findings implicate a SNF2 family ATP-dependent motor protein SUUR in the insulator function, reveal that DNA replication can be delayed by a chromatin barrier, and uncover a critical role for architectural proteins in replication control. They suggest a mechanism for the establishment of late replication that does not depend on an asynchronous firing of late replication origins. Explanation: genes origin binding transcription factors gene silencing regions may We The these same with In yeast nuclear as conserved Uyour model this heterochromat A sites 1 important regulatory RNA active nucleosome remodeling SWI complexes associated histone methylation H3KKSde epigenetic mark nucleosomes dynamic their many other found chromosomal high sequence elements have it regulation large genomes loci transcriptional insulfrom human imprinted X inactivation expression lability non genetic region two such studies mammalian single minus development time new genomic in5 embryonic lethal cancer disease loss imprinting results mouse somatic INSI
While biological age in adults is often understood as representing general health and resilience, the conceptual interpretation of accelerated biological age in children and its relationship to development remains unclear. We aimed to clarify the relationship of accelerated biological age, assessed through two established biological age indicators, telomere length and DNA methylation age, and two novel candidate biological age indicators, to child developmental outcomes, including growth and adiposity, cognition, behavior, lung function and the onset of puberty, among European school-age children participating in the HELIX exposome cohort. The study population included up to 1173 children, aged between 5 and 12 years, from study centres in the UK, France, Spain, Norway, Lithuania, and Greece. Telomere length was measured through qPCR, blood DNA methylation, and gene expression was measured using microarray, and proteins and metabolites were measured by a range of targeted assays. DNA methylation age was assessed using Horvath s skin and blood clock, while novel blood transcriptome and immunometabolic (based on plasma proteins and urinary and serum metabolites) clocks were derived and tested in a subset of children assessed six months after the main follow-up visit. Associations between biological age indicators with child developmental measures as well as health risk factors were estimated using linear regression, adjusted for chronological age, sex, ethnicity, and study centre. The clock derived markers were expressed as Δ age (i. e. predicted minus chronological age). Transcriptome and immunometabolic clocks predicted chronological age well in the test set (r = 0. 93 and r = 0. 84 respectively). Generally, weak correlations were observed, after adjustment for chronological age, between the biological age indicators. Among associations with health risk factors, higher birthweight was associated with greater immunometabolic Δ age, smoke exposure with greater DNA methylation Δ age, and high family affluence with longer telomere length. Among associations with child developmental measures, all biological age markers were associated with greater BMI and fat mass, and all markers except telomere length were associated with greater height, at least at nominal significance (p < 0. 05). Immunometabolic Δ age was associated with better working memory (p = 4 e 3) and reduced inattentiveness (p = 4 e 4), while DNA methylation Δ age was associated with greater inattentiveness (p = 0. 03) and poorer externalizing behaviors (p = 0. 01). Shorter telomere length was also associated with poorer externalizing behaviors (p = 0. 03). In children, as in adults, biological aging appears to be a multi-faceted process and adiposity is an important correlate of accelerated biological aging. Patterns of associations suggested that accelerated immunometabolic age may be beneficial for some aspects of child development while accelerated DNA methylation age and telomere attrition may reflect early detrimental aspects of biological aging, apparent even in children. UK Research and Innovation (MR / S03532X / 1); European Commission (grant agreement numbers: 308333; 874583). Explanation: genetic epigenetic ageing adult life are body disease related genes we can this association data human telomeres cells have results old immune activation or childhood mortality rate people same studies our genome analysis time more such wit et found evidence these findings adulthood obesity specific molecular biology pathways cancer susceptibility cell death which white matter changes during increased circulating inflammatory cytokines IL levels year inflammation predict adverse effects future diseases has non biomarkers level their -not yet how many shorter period somatic T lymphocytes present ans individuals develop healthy tages they older men's mechanisms known across
Many genes associated with asthma explain only a fraction of its heritability. Most genome-wide association studies (GWASs) used a broad definition of doctor-diagnosed asthma, thereby diluting genetic signals by not considering asthma heterogeneity. The objective of our study was to identify genetic associates of childhood wheezing phenotypes. We conducted a novel multivariate GWAS meta-analysis of wheezing phenotypes jointly derived using unbiased analysis of data collected from birth to 18 years in 9568 individuals from five UK birth cohorts. Forty-four independent SNPs were associated with early-onset persistent, 25 with pre-school remitting, 33 with mid-childhood remitting, and 32 with late-onset wheeze. We identified a novel locus on chr9q21. 13 (close to annexin 1 [ANXA1], p < 6. 7 × 10-9), associated exclusively with early-onset persistent wheeze. We identified rs75260654 as the most likely causative single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) using Promoter Capture Hi-C loops, and then showed that the risk allele (T) confers a reduction in ANXA1 expression. Finally, in a murine model of house dust mite (HDM) -induced allergic airway disease, we demonstrated that anxa1 protein expression increased and anxa1 mRNA was significantly induced in lung tissue following HDM exposure. Using anxa1- / - deficient mice, we showed that loss of anxa1 results in heightened airway hyperreactivity and Th2 inflammation upon allergen challenge. Targeting this pathway in persistent disease may represent an exciting therapeutic prospect. UK Medical Research Council Programme Grant MR / S025340 / 1 and the Wellcome Trust Strategic Award (108818 / 15 / Z) provided most of the funding for this study. Explanation: Asthma is gene variants are more susceptibility DNA at human bronchial eosinophilic airways eosinophils IL 5 asthmatic children high IgE levels inflammatory cells can be mechanisms development their these important cell specific which have ephenotype severe asthmatics subjects atopic new findings A potential causal role atopy major allergens non common understanding pathways such found many susceptible effect known allergy key proteins also previously one mechanism through or well people significant current work linkage analyses discovery candidate functional eosinophil blood level has now better knowledge complex underlying function related but same how critical those -In response factors s ans
By capitalising on positive biodiversity productivity relationships, intercropping provides opportunities to improve agricultural sustainability. Intercropping is generally implemented using commercial seeds that were bred for maximal productivity in monocultures, thereby ignoring the ability of plants to adapt over generations to the surrounding neighbourhood, notably through increased complementarity, that is reduced competition or increased facilitation. This is why using monoculture-adapted seeds for intercropping might limit the benefits of crop diversity on yield. However, the adaptation potential of crops and the corresponding changes in complementarity have not been explored in annual crop systems. Here we show that plant plant interactions among annual crops shifted towards reduced competition and / or increased facilitation when the plants were growing in the same community type as their parents did in the previous two generations. Total yield did not respond to this common coexistence history, but in fertilized conditions, we observed increased overyielding in mixtures with a common coexistence history. Surprisingly, we observed character convergence between species sharing the same coexistence history for two generations, in monocultures but also in mixtures: the six crop species tested converged towards taller phenotypes with lower leaf dry matter content. This study provides the first empirical evidence for the potential of parental diversity affecting plant plant interactions, species complementarity and therefore potentially ecosystem functioning of the following generations in annual cropping systems. Although further studies are required to assess the context dependence of these results, our findings may still have important implications for diversified agriculture as they illustrate the potential of targeted cultivars to increase complementarity of species in intercropping, which could be achieved through specific breeding for mixtures. Explanation: soil management strategies can communities more production food by nature use biomass C) The from higher yields sustainable agri (such an farming system has beneficial land resources across landscape ecological effects novel ecosystems many harvested agindifferent productive soils under development global farmers' In how often it benefit farm practices produce compared well conservation? We harvest biological control grass seed future maize variety growth outcomes provide new knowledge resource impact diverse win opportunity large wheat field capacity A previously weed integrated into other grazing livestock intensification complex environmental niche grasses increasing water harvesting thus
Many real-world decisions in social contexts are made while observing a partner s actions. To study dynamic interactions during such decisions, we developed a setup where two agents seated face-to-face to engage in game-theoretical tasks on a shared transparent touchscreen display (transparent games). We compared human and macaque pairs in a transparent version of the coordination game Bach-or-Stravinsky, which entails a conflict about which of two individually-preferred opposing options to choose to achieve coordination. Most human pairs developed coordinated behavior and adopted dynamic turn-taking to equalize the payoffs. All macaque pairs converged on simpler, static coordination. Remarkably, two animals learned to coordinate dynamically after training with a human confederate. This pair selected the faster agent s preferred option, exhibiting turn-taking behavior that was captured by modeling the visibility of the partner s action before one s own movement. Such competitive turn-taking was unlike the prosocial turn-taking in humans, who equally often initiated switches to and from their preferred option. Thus, the dynamic coordination is not restricted to humans but can occur on the background of different social attitudes and cognitive capacities in rhesus monkeys. Overall, our results illustrate how action visibility promotes the emergence and maintenance of coordination when agents can observe and time their mutual actions. Explanation: more people use decision making for as ability et behaviors play an this same choices between monkey brain network activity neural circuits neurons have these observed movements self 1 / ants information system used model other similar task performance data they players' The complex activities role played key behavioral act observation process may be behaviour also make it models cells networks dynamics many animal's systems known primate species oreven directed us mechanisms approach novel individuals show important yet art has evolved using In mind control subjects choice responses given situations interact better than others well chosen actor
An in vitro model of human ovarian follicles would greatly benefit the study of female reproduction. Ovarian development requires the combination of germ cells and several types of somatic cells. Among these, granulosa cells play a key role in follicle formation and support for oogenesis. Whereas efficient protocols exist for generating human primordial germ cell-like cells (hPGCLCs) from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs), a method of generating granulosa cells has been elusive. Here, we report that simultaneous overexpression of two transcription factors (TFs) can direct the differentiation of hiPSCs to granulosa-like cells. We elucidate the regulatory effects of several granulosa-related TFs and establish that overexpression of NR5A1 and either RUNX1 or RUNX2 is sufficient to generate granulosa-like cells. Our granulosa-like cells have transcriptomes similar to human fetal ovarian cells and recapitulate key ovarian phenotypes including follicle formation and steroidogenesis. When aggregated with hPGCLCs, our cells form ovary-like organoids (ovaroids) and support hPGCLC development from the premigratory to the gonadal stage as measured by induction of DAZL expression. This model system will provide unique opportunities for studying human ovarian biology and may enable the development of therapies for female reproductive health. Explanation: oocyte PGC fate reprogramming gene are oocytes nuclear reoOthis genes follicular growth factor 1 The during folliculo developmental potential germline derived adult ES lineage progenitors could be ovaries function studies on which future fertility mature GCs an embryos develop their genetic In not embryonic genome activation mechanisms important early it also such ofs GatRNA POCG / Oct4 transcriptional control iDNA specific pluripotency OCT3 more than process gonads tissue self Oct ESCs ability developing into critical time when 2 out germinal sex Gerone X et al mouse models were
Our interest in the genetic basis of skin color variation between populations led us to seek a Native American population with genetically African admixture but low frequency of European light skin alleles. Analysis of 458 genomes from individuals residing in the Kalinago Territory of the Commonwealth of Dominica showed approximately 55% Native American, 32% African, and 12% European genetic ancestry, the highest Native American genetic ancestry among Caribbean populations to date. Skin pigmentation ranged from 20 to 80 melanin units, averaging 46. Three albino individuals were determined to be homozygous for a causative multi-nucleotide polymorphism OCA2NW273KV contained within a haplotype of African origin; its allele frequency was 0. 03 and single allele effect size was 8 melanin units. Derived allele frequencies of SLC24A5A111T and SLC45A2L374F were 0. 14 and 0. 06, with single allele effect sizes of 6 and 4, respectively. Native American genetic ancestry by itself reduced pigmentation by more than 20 melanin units (range 24 29). The responsible hypopigmenting genetic variants remain to be identified, since none of the published polymorphisms predicted in prior literature to affect skin color in Native Americans caused detectable hypopigmentation in the Kalinago. Explanation: that we is on are found genes have an may ancestral black race specific gene 1 non white people common these as human albiny / A new loci previously known which present this pigment their same results show also our study melanmelanocortin 2 has unique associated mutations at tyrosinase important melanocyte disease pigmentary not yet melanoma risk variant tWe can tan patients novel hair pigmented into different wild brown hairs melanocytes presence or other one major races atMelanit all types rare athose used data analysis most likely similar studies many unknown complex trait
Antioxidant intervention is considered to inhibit reactive oxygen species (ROS) and alleviate hyperglycemia. Paradoxically, moderate exercise can produce ROS to improve diabetes. The exact redox mechanism of these two different approaches remains largely unclear. Here, by comparing exercise and antioxidant intervention on type 2 diabetic rats, we found moderate exercise upregulated compensatory antioxidant capability and reached a higher level of redox balance in the liver. In contrast, antioxidant intervention achieved a low-level redox balance by inhibiting oxidative stress. Both of these two interventions could promote glucose catabolism and inhibit gluconeogenesis through activation of hepatic AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling; therefore, ameliorating diabetes. During exercise, different levels of ROS generated by exercise have differential regulations on the activity and expression of hepatic AMPK. Moderate exercise-derived ROS promoted hepatic AMPK glutathionylation activation. However, excessive exercise increased oxidative damage and inhibited the activity and expression of AMPK. Overall, our results illustrate that both exercise and antioxidant intervention improve blood glucose control in diabetes by promoting redox balance, despite different levels of redox state (s). These results indicate that the AMPK signaling activation, combined with oxidative damage markers, could act as sentinel biomarkers, reflecting the threshold of redox balance that is linked to effective glucose control in diabetes. These findings provide theoretical evidence for the precise management of diabetes by antioxidants and exercise. Explanation: metabolic oxidation high diet this insulin resistance an mitochondrial ATP energy metabolism capacity mitochondria complex 1 health cells response mechanisms are more during acute effects muscle not increase body fuel skeletal muscles use / ability regulation may be training at aerobic physical active cellular reduced oxidant conditions or after such studies which were role fasting plasma from under chronic mild beneficial effect against disease associated changes responses when mice heart rate physiological function also known treatment strategies used their work related activities increases whole life oxidize less but it was well people protective benefits lipid reducing animals better treatments how
The escape trajectory (ET) of prey measured as the angle relative to the predator s approach path plays a major role in avoiding predation. Previous geometric models predict a single ET; however, many species show highly variable ETs with multiple preferred directions. Although such a high ET variability may confer unpredictability to avoid predation, the reasons why animals prefer specific multiple ETs remain unclear. Here, we constructed a novel geometric model that incorporates the time required for prey to turn and the predator s position at the end of its attack. The optimal ET was determined by maximizing the time difference of arrival at the edge of the safety zone between the prey and predator. By fitting the model to the experimental data of fish Pagrus major, we show that the model can clearly explain the observed multiple preferred ETs. By changing the parameters of the same model within a realistic range, we were able to produce various patterns of ETs empirically observed in other species (e. g., insects and frogs): a single preferred ET and multiple preferred ETs at small (20 50 °) and large (150 180 °) angles from the predator. Our results open new avenues of investigation for understanding how animals choose their ETs from behavioral and neurosensory perspectives. Explanation: predators-ant et this behavior is an ants food our use different on animal's are not known information system used eit behaviors have evolved these A potential E response times study which could be complex We previously found out mechanisms using more important foraging trawater well studied behaviour also when strategies 1 / ability ecological most organisms but they ambuses strategy? In environment where one or even higher movement speed swimming performance predicted energy search area activity landscape explore evolution arms movements "As body shape fitness benefits spatial lizards population has evolutionary studies
The recent development of prime editing (PE) genome engineering technologies has the potential to significantly simplify the generation of human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC) -based disease models. PE is a multicomponent editing system that uses a Cas9-nickase fused to a reverse transcriptase (nCas9-RT) and an extended PE guide RNA (pegRNA). Once reverse transcribed, the pegRNA extension functions as a repair template to introduce precise designer mutations at the target site. Here, we systematically compared the editing efficiencies of PE to conventional gene editing methods in hPSCs. This analysis revealed that PE is overall more efficient and precise than homology-directed repair of site-specific nuclease-induced double-strand breaks. Specifically, PE is more effective in generating heterozygous editing events to create autosomal dominant disease-associated mutations. By stably integrating the nCas9-RT into hPSCs we achieved editing efficiencies equal to those reported for cancer cells, suggesting that the expression of the PE components, rather than cell-intrinsic features, limit PE in hPSCs. To improve the efficiency of PE in hPSCs, we optimized the delivery modalities for the PE components. Delivery of the nCas9-RT as mRNA combined with synthetically generated, chemically-modified pegRNAs and nicking guide RNAs improved editing efficiencies up to 13-fold compared with transfecting the PE components as plasmids or ribonucleoprotein particles. Finally, we demonstrated that this mRNA-based delivery approach can be used repeatedly to yield editing efficiencies exceeding 60% and to correct or introduce familial mutations causing Parkinson s disease in hPSCs. Explanation: CRISPR / by targeting DNA et our use on are not TE's these genes edited 1 ES derived somatic genetic correction factors pe their have eability method We could previously non error types de how high new data using In which all treatment next edit peinit results now model systems one off genomes approaches such targeted PEfrom process developed therapeutic protein production? studies show functional genomic tools' -when present strategies technology large scale engineered nucleases activity single se also novel dNedits mechanism enable known; may two small
Multiple myeloma (MM) accounts for ~ 10% of all haematologic malignancies. Little is known about high intratumour heterogeneities in patients stratified by the Revised International Staging System (R-ISS). Herein, we constructed a single-cell transcriptome atlas to compare differential expression patterns among stages. We found that a novel cytotoxic plasma cell (PC) population exhibited with NKG7 positive was obviously enriched in stage II patients. Additionally, a malignant PC population with significantly elevated expression of MKI67 and PCNA was associated with unfavourable prognosis and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection in our collected samples. Moreover, ribonucleotide reductase regulatory subunit M2 (RRM2) was found and verified to promote proliferation of MM cell lines, suggesting RRM2 may serve as a detrimental marker in MM. The percentages of CD8 + T cells and NKT cells decreased along with R-ISS stages, reflecting the plasticity of the tumour immune microenvironment. Importantly, their crosstalks with myeloid cells and PC identified several potential immunotargets such as SIRPA-CD47 and CD74-MIF, respectively. Collectively, this study provided an R-ISS-related single-cell MM atlas and revealed the clinical significance of novel PC clusters, as well as potential immunotargets in MM progression. Explanation: cancer stem IL 2 are disease have which can lymphoma et more data these cancers studies gene therapy response models were new prognostic risk factors c role on treatment therapies checkpoint activation 1 / patient survival outcomes results therapeutic anti PD immunity checkpoints inhibitors responses could be used antibodies targeting or treatments approach has immunotherapy resistance mechanisms against development they also present tumor growth inhibition function molecules involved previously antibody next DNA level genes pathways inhibitor drugs sensitive tumors model predict overall chemotherapy drug combination strategies using treated AML t non - not even better targeted agents including phase 3
Cas7-11 is a Type III-E CRISPR Cas effector that confers programmable RNA cleavage and has potential applications in RNA interference. Cas7-11 encodes a single polypeptide containing four Cas7- and one Cas11-like segments that obscures the distinction between the multi-subunit Class 1 and the single-subunit Class-2 CRISPR Cas systems. We report a cryo-EM (cryo-electron microscopy) structure of the active Cas7-11 from Desulfonema ishimotonii (DiCas7-11) that reveals the molecular basis for RNA processing and interference activities. DiCas7-11 arranges its Cas7- and Cas11-like domains in an extended form that resembles the backbone made up by four Cas7 and one Cas11 subunits in the multi-subunit enzymes. Unlike the multi-subunit enzymes, however, the backbone of DiCas7-11 contains evolutionarily different Cas7 and Cas11 domains, giving rise to their unique functionality. The first Cas7-like domain nearly engulfs the last 15 direct repeat nucleotides in processing and recognition of the CRISPR RNA, and its free-standing fragment retains most of the activity. Both the second and the third Cas7-like domains mediate target RNA cleavage in a metal-dependent manner. The structure and mutational data indicate that the long variable insertion to the fourth Cas7 domain has little impact on RNA processing or targeting, suggesting the possibility for engineering a compact and programmable RNA interference tool. Explanation: protein with DNA we proteins complex structures are essential guide RNAs binding fold this can be conserved structural model many other not known mechanism use type which et sequence specific crnas new enzyme 3 '-it complexes function these found similar but also against C / A genome editing Cas9 immunity bacterial host cell factors gene In spacer arms two have how help assembly large spacers interactions studies bacteria cells small self our previously used 5 types Call components system development they genes more such important work mechanisms using could human disease associated virus elements S
Addressing global biodiversity loss requires an expanded focus on multiple dimensions of biodiversity. While most studies have focused on the consequences of plant interspecific diversity, our mechanistic understanding of how genetic diversity within plant species affects plant productivity remains limited. Here, we use a tree species × genetic diversity experiment to disentangle the effects of species diversity and genetic diversity on tree productivity, and how they are related to tree functional diversity and trophic feedbacks. We found that tree species diversity increased tree productivity via increased tree functional diversity, reduced soil fungal diversity, and marginally reduced herbivory. The effects of tree genetic diversity on productivity via functional diversity and soil fungal diversity were negative in monocultures but positive in the mixture of the four tree species tested. Given the complexity of interactions between species and genetic diversity, tree functional diversity and trophic feedbacks on productivity, we suggest that both tree species and genetic diversity should be considered in afforestation. Explanation: forest ecosystem-communities) is for more than with community trait ant ecological network structure traits important these ants biomass resources (study ecosystems networks trees yield higher their this by different nature as diverse food weet al plants systems knowledge complex resource management strategies can increase across landscape biological control organisms conservation also known which natural guild same or not results forests from studied land system C i A new model landscapes impact thus it carbon tropical savable tabodefs atsuch agricultural agintegrated information data large native vegetation may approach novel
Single-molecule imaging provides a powerful way to study biochemical processes in live cells, yet it remains challenging to track single molecules while simultaneously detecting their interactions. Here, we describe a novel property of rhodamine dyes, proximity-assisted photoactivation (PAPA), in which one fluorophore (the sender) can reactivate a second fluorophore (the receiver) from a dark state. PAPA requires proximity between the two fluorophores, yet it operates at a longer average intermolecular distance than Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET). We show that PAPA can be used in live cells both to detect protein protein interactions and to highlight a subpopulation of labeled protein complexes in which two different labels are in proximity. In proof-of-concept experiments, PAPA detected the expected correlation between androgen receptor self-association and chromatin binding at the single-cell level. These results establish a new way in which a photophysical property of fluorophores can be harnessed to study molecular interactions in single-molecule imaging of live cells. Explanation: fluorescence approach for this is with fluorescent proteins interaction data on DNA or as by method 1 not only use an have more these called signal detection how well time physical properties The other our studies many such complex observed dynamics changes signaling network signals when they same methods et system also known information about dynamic nuclear import / s cellular process large number interacting some specific has studied cancer prostate human AR ligand active form receptors into may potential mechanism found ability important biological activity where men PSA levels high androgens free light nanA bind sites were This
The effect of calcium supplementation on bone mineral accretion in people under 35 years old is inconclusive. To comprehensively summarize the evidence for the effect of calcium supplementation on bone mineral accretion in young populations (≤ 35 years). This is a systematic review and meta-analysis. The Pubmed, Embase, ProQuest, CENTRAL, WHO Global Index Medicus, Clinical Trials. gov, WHO ICTRP, China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), and Wanfang Data databases were systematically searched from database inception to April 25, 2021. Randomized clinical trials assessing the effects of calcium supplementation on bone mineral density (BMD) or bone mineral content (BMC) in people under 35 years old. This systematic review and meta-analysis identified 43 studies involving 7, 382 subjects. Moderate certainty of evidence showed that calcium supplementation was associated with the accretion of BMD and BMC, especially on femoral neck (standardized mean difference [SMD] 0. 627, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0. 338 0. 915; SMD 0. 364, 95% CI 0. 134 0. 595; respectively) and total body (SMD 0. 330, 95% CI 0. 163 0. 496; SMD 0. 149, 95% CI 0. 006 0. 291), also with a slight improvement effect on lumbar spine BMC (SMD 0. 163, 95% CI 0. 008 0. 317), no effects on total hip BMD and BMC and lumbar spine BMD were observed. Very interestingly, subgroup analyses suggested that the improvement of bone at femoral neck was more pronounced in the peripeak bone mass (PBM) population (20 35 years) than the pre-PBM population (< 20 years). Our findings provided novel insights and evidence in calcium supplementation, which showed that calcium supplementation significantly improves bone mass, implying that preventive calcium supplementation before or around achieving PBM may be a shift in the window of intervention for osteoporosis. This work was supported by Wenzhou Medical University grant [89219029]. Explanation: 1 health food intake high dietary Calcium use women's not an increase daily Ca intakes are this low but results study we used data have benefits fracture risk reduction interventions can improve men + 3 nutritional vitamin D deficiency there such as diet positive impact vertebral fractures prevention increases 10 mg / Bone loss 5 year significant higher nutrition calcione has increased BMet al our knowledge about when it should future large public well world these effective dose levels reduce age adults treatment their benefit skeletal disease important bones outcomes now better understanding mechanisms role serum PTH
In biological systems, liquid and solid-like biomolecular condensates may contain the same molecules but their behaviour, including movement, elasticity, and viscosity, is different on account of distinct physicochemical properties. As such, it is known that phase transitions affect the function of biological condensates and that material properties can be tuned by several factors including temperature, concentration, and valency. It is, however, unclear if some factors are more efficient than others at regulating their behaviour. Viral infections are good systems to address this question as they form condensates de novo as part of their replication programmes. Here, we used influenza A virus (IAV) liquid cytosolic condensates, AKA viral inclusions, to provide a proof of concept that liquid condensate hardening via changes in the valency of its components is more efficient than altering their concentration or the temperature of the cell. Liquid IAV inclusions may be hardened by targeting vRNP (viral ribonucleoprotein) interactions via the known NP (nucleoprotein) oligomerising molecule, nucleozin, both in vitro and in vivo without affecting host proteome abundance nor solubility. This study is a starting point for understanding how to pharmacologically modulate the material properties of IAV inclusions and may offer opportunities for alternative antiviral strategies. Explanation: viruses RNA protein with proteins infection cells system cellular activity an these particles formation ability also which infected human disease conditions IDNA binding inhibitors new our mechanism The not essential role droplets structure assembly into complex virions capsid structures have We found many other important information process large active / infectious agents complexes HIV 1 non structural model water self similar studies from small RNAs interaction network key unknown mechanisms virion production intracellular shape particle size increase during development low number potential novel data present knowledge models all networks critical processes high specific has internal membrane lipid soluble nature
Kinesin superfamily proteins are microtubule-based molecular motors driven by the energy of ATP hydrolysis. Among them, the kinesin-4 family is a unique motor that inhibits microtubule dynamics. Although mutations of kinesin-4 cause several diseases, its molecular mechanism is unclear because of the difficulty of visualizing the high-resolution structure of kinesin-4 working at the microtubule plus-end. Here, we report that KLP-12, a C. elegans kinesin-4 ortholog of KIF21A and KIF21B, is essential for proper length control of C. elegans axons, and its motor domain represses microtubule polymerization in vitro. The crystal structure of the KLP-12 motor domain complexed with tubulin, which represents the high-resolution structural snapshot of the inhibition state of microtubule-end dynamics, revealed the bending effect of KLP-12 for tubulin. Comparison with the KIF5B-tubulin and KIF2C-tubulin complexes, which represent the elongation and shrinking forms of microtubule ends, respectively, showed the curvature of tubulin introduced by KLP-12 is in between them. Taken together, KLP-12 controls the proper length of axons by modulating the curvature of the microtubule ends to inhibit the microtubule dynamics. Explanation: microtubules binding protein kan function as cargo transport cell cycle this their) We have (or cells studies on role different from process kines1 light out complex assembly mechanisms other required K + it may be our model how these also conserved key kinase activity phosphorylation regulation kinases A / bind not known many important polarity 2 In has such but more found similar work two use study can regulate neurons human disease mutant Drosophila axon- loss axonal growth factors signaling pathways leading development time one results axon new neuron non functions fly brain localization
Highly potent animal stem cells either self renew or launch complex differentiation programs, using mechanisms that are only partly understood. Drosophila female germline stem cells (GSCs) perpetuate without change over evolutionary time and generate cystoblast daughters that develop into nurse cells and oocytes. Cystoblasts initiate differentiation by generating a transient syncytial state, the germline cyst, and by increasing pericentromeric H3K9me3 modification, actions likely to suppress transposable element activity. Relatively open GSC chromatin is further restricted by Polycomb repression of testis or somatic cell-expressed genes briefly active in early female germ cells. Subsequently, Neijre / CBP and Myc help upregulate growth and reprogram GSC metabolism by altering mitochondrial transmembrane transport, gluconeogenesis, and other processes. In all these respects GSC differentiation resembles development of the totipotent zygote. We propose that the totipotent stem cell state was shaped by the need to resist transposon activity over evolutionary timescales. Explanation: gene expression for we transcription factors can be this with which may not function as an have genome DNA transposons RNA TE sex flies their epigenetic regulation on fly male fertility sperm nuclear transcriptional control X ES The during our how could also known from new conserved protein 1 such essential role de regulatory elements human cancer mutations associated disease genetic loss at proteins key developmental stage embryonic lethal non specific changes many important found Ty Sex chromosome spermatogenesis factor A testes lineage it et more than same has This required SZFyone results adult tissue
Biological rhythms are ubiquitous. They can be generated by circadian oscillators, which produce daily rhythms in physiology and behavior, as well as by developmental oscillators such as the segmentation clock, which periodically produces modular developmental units. Here, we show that the circadian clock controls the timing of late-stage floret development, or anthesis, in domesticated sunflowers. In these plants, up to thousands of individual florets are tightly packed onto a capitulum disk. While early floret development occurs continuously across capitula to generate iconic spiral phyllotaxy, during anthesis floret development occurs in discrete ring-like pseudowhorls with up to hundreds of florets undergoing simultaneous maturation. We demonstrate circadian regulation of floral organ growth and show that the effects of light on this process are time-of-day dependent. Delays in the phase of floral anthesis delay morning visits by pollinators, while disruption of circadian rhythms in floral organ development causes loss of pseudowhorl formation and large reductions in pollinator visits. We therefore show that the sunflower circadian clock acts in concert with environmental response pathways to tightly synchronize the anthesis of hundreds of florets each day, generating spatial patterns on the developing capitulum disk. This coordinated mass release of floral rewards at predictable times of day likely promotes pollinator visits and plant reproductive success. Explanation: flower number fruit is flowering for food blob) more (1 have an et function dThe control cells from also results genes expression period flies temporal self important factors D model cell signaling network activity molecular mechanisms may A new regulatory gene key information system genetic networks controlling protein complex many proteins functional studies our s known data it has / Dbother species fruits crop production under provide different biological functions use Fall yield crops potential novel Bus systems biology related mechanism into how could previously knowledge models structure similar but not used
Hydrogen peroxide is the most common reactive chemical that organisms face on the microbial battlefield. The rate with which hydrogen peroxide damages biomolecules required for life increases with temperature, yet little is known about how organisms cope with this temperature-dependent threat. Here, we show that Caenorhabditis elegans nematodes use temperature information perceived by sensory neurons to cope with the temperature-dependent threat of hydrogen peroxide produced by the pathogenic bacterium Enterococcus faecium. These nematodes preemptively induce the expression of specific hydrogen peroxide defenses in response to perception of high temperature by a pair of sensory neurons. These neurons communicate temperature information to target tissues expressing those defenses via an insulin / IGF1 hormone. This is the first example of a multicellular organism inducing their defenses to a chemical when they sense an inherent enhancer of the reactivity of that chemical. Explanation: and food bacteria stress responses signaling cells ability) We as our worms immune system host cell production H2O2 bacterial infection pathogen oxidative damage are A (1 environmental H against pathogens mechanisms evolved protective genes eat signals environment survival conditions these animals immunity cellular ROS levels or As well defense systems respond also found microbes can be disease resistance from used Escherichia coli heat tolerance E type two stresses worm associated health protection human exposure water molecules control infections model In important work have hosts gut nematode growth factors intestinal development but not function it produce more such studies
Class switch recombination generates distinct antibody isotypes critical to a robust adaptive immune system, and defects are associated with autoimmune disorders and lymphomagenesis. Transcription is required during class switch recombination to recruit the cytidine deaminase AID an essential step for the formation of DNA double-strand breaks and strongly induces the formation of R loops within the immunoglobulin heavy-chain locus. However, the impact of R loops on double-strand break formation and repair during class switch recombination remains unclear. Here, we report that cells lacking two enzymes involved in R loop removal senataxin and RNase H2 exhibit increased R loop formation and genome instability at the immunoglobulin heavy-chain locus without impacting its transcriptional activity, AID recruitment, or class switch recombination efficiency. Senataxin and RNase H2-deficient cells also exhibit increased insertion mutations at switch junctions, a hallmark of alternative end joining. Importantly, these phenotypes were not observed in cells lacking senataxin or RNase H2B alone. We propose that senataxin acts redundantly with RNase H2 to mediate timely R loop removal, promoting efficient repair while suppressing AID-dependent genome instability and insertional mutagenesis. Explanation: human somatic Ig) by gene this genes can B cell model A (1 / 2 IAinduced genetic damage response protein factors as mechanism ataxia disease mutation In non expression et The may found cancer patients lymphoma development mechanisms such proteins which have Igκ light chains antibodies production anti germline C their specific RNA transcription nuclear active chromatin binding replication DSBs ends complex process it our mice data from ability CRISPR large repeat sequence homology chromosome translocations high genomic regions where could be novel repeats chromosomal translocation has unique site lesions many other similar but more
Large-scale populations in the world have been vaccinated with COVID-19 vaccines, however, breakthrough infections of SARS-CoV-2 are still growing rapidly due to the emergence of immune-evasive variants, especially Omicron. It is urgent to develop effective broad-spectrum vaccines to better control the pandemic of these variants. Here, we present a mosaic-type trimeric form of spike receptor-binding domain (mos-tri-RBD) as a broad-spectrum vaccine candidate, which carries the key mutations from Omicron and other circulating variants. Tests in rats showed that the designed mos-tri-RBD, whether used alone or as a booster shot, elicited potent cross-neutralizing antibodies against not only Omicron but also other immune-evasive variants. Neutralizing antibody ID50 titers induced by mos-tri-RBD were substantially higher than those elicited by homo-tri-RBD (containing homologous RBDs from prototype strain) or the BIBP inactivated COVID-19 vaccine (BBIBP-CorV). Our study indicates that mos-tri-RBD is highly immunogenic, which may serve as a broad-spectrum vaccine candidate in combating SARS-CoV-2 variants including Omicron. Explanation: 0virus entry envelope proteins rfor human host cell infection broadly protective immunity HIV Env B epitopes conserved viruses R5 / viral neutralization escape potential anti 1 buse high on osIlike critical bat disease severe coronavirus spikes monoclonal pre exposed new subtype non major strains can be developed an important similar studies our protein's likely this two MERS co evolved specific arms at found their has epitope targeted fusion tier A novel data mice vaccination strategies using mouse model protection efficacy whole i nit vWe previously infected animal models all s more shre
Plasmodium falciparum, the causative agent of malaria, remains a global health threat as parasites continue to develop resistance to antimalarial drugs used throughout the world. Accordingly, drugs with novel modes of action are desperately required to combat malaria. P. falciparum parasites infect human red blood cells where they digest the host s main protein constituent, hemoglobin. Leucine aminopeptidase PfA-M17 is one of several aminopeptidases that have been implicated in the last step of this digestive pathway. Here, we use both reverse genetics and a compound specifically designed to inhibit the activity of PfA-M17 to show that PfA-M17 is essential for P. falciparum survival as it provides parasites with free amino acids for growth, many of which are highly likely to originate from hemoglobin. We further show that loss of PfA-M17 results in parasites exhibiting multiple digestive vacuoles at the trophozoite stage. In contrast to other hemoglobin-degrading proteases that have overlapping redundant functions, we validate PfA-M17 as a potential novel drug target. Explanation: parasite enzymes inhibitors artantimalamon chloroquine mekan by studies The (be active against malarial cell invasion process killing plasMalaria infection proteins) new treatment can parasi1 protease falciparasitic degradation enzyme has not known molecules also these artemisinin binding inhibitor development anti disease resistant mechanism their study found previously treated may or more pump out specific fasexual parasit2 apopal key role infected our genes pfAs well now work was important but such control expression during infections model intracellular processing inside trophozoites / how could targeting different mechanisms using
Early hematopoiesis is a continuous process in which hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) gradually differentiate toward specific lineages. Aging and myeloid malignant transformation are characterized by changes in the composition and regulation of HSPCs. In this study, we used single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to characterize an enriched population of human HSPCs obtained from young and elderly healthy individuals. Based on their transcriptional profile, we identified changes in the proportions of progenitor compartments during aging, and differences in their functionality, as evidenced by gene set enrichment analysis. Trajectory inference revealed that altered gene expression dynamics accompanied cell differentiation, which could explain aging-associated changes in hematopoiesis. Next, we focused on key regulators of transcription by constructing gene regulatory networks (GRNs) and detected regulons that were specifically active in elderly individuals. Using previous findings in healthy cells as a reference, we analyzed scRNA-seq data obtained from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and detected specific alterations of the expression dynamics of genes involved in erythroid differentiation in all patients with MDS such as TRIB2. In addition, the comparison between transcriptional programs and GRNs regulating normal HSPCs and MDS HSPCs allowed identification of regulons that were specifically active in MDS cases such as SMAD1, HOXA6, POU2F2, and RUNX1 suggesting a role of these transcription factors (TFs) in the pathogenesis of the disease. In summary, we demonstrate that the combination of single-cell technologies with computational analysis tools enable the study of a variety of cellular mechanisms involved in complex biological systems such as early hematopoiesis and can be used to dissect perturbed differentiation trajectories associated with perturbations such as aging and malignant transformation. Furthermore, the identification of abnormal regulatory mechanisms associated with myeloid malignancies could be exploited for personalized therapeutic approaches in individual patients. Explanation: leukemia risk development cancer signaling pathways function leukemic bone marrow progenitors more AML therapy response novel our results have lineage diseases genetic mutations GATASYor DNA known patient blood acute myelodyss system may treatment approach therapies clinical outcomes leukemias high age related survival models 2 years HSCs into previously The new biology understanding potential health effects studies We model induced adult CD34 + 5% blasts derived growth factor production levels important functional somatic gain old also increased t al common mechanism JAK2 kinase signal pathway JAK3 JAK / activation STAT5 essential chronic anemia developing at
Animals must learn to ignore stimuli that are irrelevant to survival and attend to ones that enhance survival. When a stimulus regularly fails to be associated with an important consequence, subsequent excitatory learning about that stimulus can be delayed, which is a form of nonassociative conditioning called latent inhibition. Honey bees show latent inhibition toward an odor they have experienced without association with food reinforcement. Moreover, individual honey bees from the same colony differ in the degree to which they show latent inhibition, and these individual differences have a genetic basis. To investigate the mechanisms that underly individual differences in latent inhibition, we selected two honey bee lines for high and low latent inhibition, respectively. We crossed those lines and mapped a Quantitative Trait Locus for latent inhibition to a region of the genome that contains the tyramine receptor gene Amtyr1 [We use Amtyr1 to denote the gene and AmTYR1 the receptor throughout the text.]. We then show that disruption of Amtyr1 signaling either pharmacologically or through RNAi qualitatively changes the expression of latent inhibition but has little or slight effects on appetitive conditioning, and these results suggest that AmTYR1 modulates inhibitory processing in the CNS. Electrophysiological recordings from the brain during pharmacological blockade are consistent with a model that AmTYR1 indirectly regulates at inhibitory synapses in the CNS. Our results therefore identify a distinct Amtyr1-based modulatory pathway for this type of nonassociative learning, and we propose a model for how Amtyr1 acts as a gain control to modulate hebbian plasticity at defined synapses in the CNS. We have shown elsewhere how this modulation also underlies potentially adaptive intracolonial learning differences among individuals that benefit colony survival. Finally, our neural model suggests a mechanism for the broad pleiotropy this gene has on several different behaviors. Explanation: ant social wasants response neurons activity their) The animals ability et al (A novel information memory it learned by function previously behavior responses genes effect flies more than known cells In role amnot when may development l2 studies Drosophila melanogaster similar one behavioral such As well other found neuronal network models system used fruit fly performance after process were This study under conditions behaviour effective wagents "s experimental animal? -both time studied cognitive rats potential ykey factors into molecular level identified molecules approach many species behaviorally related experiments using number
The specific functional properties of a tissue are distributed amongst its component cell types. The various cells act coherently, as an ensemble, in order to execute a physiologic response. Modern approaches for identifying and dissecting novel physiologic mechanisms would benefit from an ability to identify specific cell types in live tissues that could then be imaged in real time. Current techniques require the use of fluorescent genetic reporters that are not only cumbersome, but which only allow the study of three or four cell types at a time. We report a non-invasive imaging modality that capitalizes on the endogenous autofluorescence signatures of the metabolic cofactors NAD (P) H and FAD. By marrying morphological characteristics with autofluorescence signatures, all seven of the airway epithelial cell types can be distinguished simultaneously in mouse tracheal explants in real time. Furthermore, we find that this methodology for direct cell type-specific identification avoids pitfalls associated with the use of ostensibly cell type-specific markers that are, in fact, altered by clinically relevant physiologic stimuli. Finally, we utilize this methodology to interrogate real-time physiology and identify dynamic secretory cell associated antigen passages (SAPs) that form in response to cholinergic stimulus. The identical process has been well documented in the intestine where the dynamic formation of SAPs and goblet cell associated antigen passages (GAPs) enable luminal antigen sampling. Airway secretory cells with SAPs are frequently juxtaposed to antigen presenting cells, suggesting that airway SAPs, like their intestinal counterparts, not only sample antigen but convey their cargo for immune cell processing. Explanation: is expression human data these studies have disease our signaling pathways activation secretion digestive secret et glands more enzymes activity cellular model also gene regulatory protein complex 2 important factors such found proteins function regulation genes signal pathway how inflammatory mucosal IL 1 receptor activated lung cancer stem / s inflammation mechanism airways normal epithelium barrier tight junctions Tal development they mucosa high levels during asthma eosinophils active mucus production may increased cytokines signalling molecules critical role In vivo mice experimental models using results A biological system biology information analysis method different level control key enzyme regulated mucin
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death worldwide due to the inability of adult heart to regenerate after injury. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation catalyzed by the enzyme methyltransferase-like 3 (Mettl3) plays an important role in various physiological and pathological bioprocesses. However, the role of m6A in heart regeneration remains largely unclear. To study m6A function in heart regeneration, we modulated Mettl3 expression in vitro and in vivo. Knockdown of Mettl3 significantly increased the proliferation of cardiomyocytes and accelerated heart regeneration following heart injury in neonatal and adult mice. However, Mettl3 overexpression decreased cardiomyocyte proliferation and suppressed heart regeneration in postnatal mice. Conjoint analysis of methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq) and RNA-seq identified Fgf16 as a downstream target of Mettl3-mediated m6A modification during postnatal heart regeneration. RIP-qPCR and luciferase reporter assays revealed that Mettl3 negatively regulates Fgf16 mRNA expression in an m6A-Ythdf2-dependent manner. The silencing of Fgf16 suppressed the proliferation of cardiomyocytes. However, the overexpression of ΔFgf16, in which the m6A consensus sequence was mutated, significantly increased cardiomyocyte proliferation and accelerated heart regeneration in postnatal mice compared with wild-type Fgf16. Our data demonstrate that Mettl3 post-transcriptionally reduces Fgf16 mRNA levels through an m6A-Ythdf2-dependen pathway, thereby controlling cardiomyocyte proliferation and heart regeneration. Explanation: cell protein for gene new cells stem 1 We this m DNA binding proteins are known genes regulation In A novel found their these can be critical mouse hearts tissue specific factors de regulatory changes have more or not zebrafish development stage one studies previously our genetic et also other at 5% body organ system it may 2 such results on control bone marrow fibrosis growth differentiation lineage progenitor cardiac muscle regenerative potential loss normal c fibroblast activation mechanisms many signaling pathways human blood derived from This induced Fms level + -embryonic / s phenotype f similar
The risk of second primary cancers (SPC) is increasing after the first primary cancers (FPC) are diagnosed and treated. The underlying causal relationship remains unclear. We conducted a pan-cancer association (26 cancers) study in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database (non-Hispanic whites). The standardized incidence ratio (SIR) was estimated as the risk of SPCs in cancer survivors based on the incidence in the general population. Furthermore, the causal effect was evaluated by two-sample Mendelian Randomization (MR, 13 FPCs) in the UK Biobank (UKB, n = 459, 136,, European whites) and robust analysis (radial MR and Causal Analysis Using Summary Effect estimates, CAUSE). We found 11 significant cross-correlations among different cancers after harmonizing SIR and MR results. Whereas only 4 of them were confirmed by MR to have a robust causal relationship. In particular, patients initially diagnosed with oral pharyngeal cancer would have an increased risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (SIRSEER = 1. 18, 95% Confidence Interval [CI]: 1. 05 1. 31, ORradial-MR = 1. 21, 95% CI: 1. 13 1. 30, p = 6. 00 × 10-3; ORcause = 1. 17, 95% CI: 1. 05 1. 31, p = 8. 90 × 10-3). Meanwhile, ovary cancer was identified to be a risk factor for soft tissue cancer (SIRSEER = 1. 72, 95% Confidence Interval [CI]: 1. 08 2. 60, ORradial-MR = 1. 39, 95% CI: 1. 22 1. 58, p = 1. 07 × 10-3; ORcause = 1. 36, 95% CI: 1. 16 1. 58, p = 0. 01). And kidney cancer was likely to cause the development of lung cancer (SIRSEER = 1. 28, 95% Confidence Interval [CI]: 1. 22 1. 35, ORradial-MR = 1. 17, 95% CI: 1. 08 1. 27, p = 6. 60 × 10-3; ORcause = 1. 16, 95% CI: 1. 02 1. 31, p = 0. 05) and myeloma (SIRSEER = 1. 54, 95% Confidence Interval [CI]: 1. 33 1. 78, ORradial-MR = 1. 72, 95% CI: 1. 21 2. 45, p = 0. 02; ORcause = 1. 49, 95% CI: 1. 04 2. 34, p = 0. 02). A certain type of primary cancer may cause another second primary cancer, and the profound mechanisms need to be studied in the future. This work was in supported by grants from National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 81972645), Innovative research team of high-level local universities in Shanghai, Shanghai Youth Talent Support Program, intramural grant of The University of Hong Kong to Dr. Rong Na, and Shanghai Sailing Program (22YF1440500) to Dr. Da Huang. Explanation: that et health data this can we studies Cancer disease stage not at years or new information about which further genetic susceptibility genes discovery novel findings associated early human exposure radiation DNA next large epidemiological sifi many such similar observed could well known these more often people develop their gene result SI5 year men one cohort mortality rate all causes other common factors same they previously reported also our most organ site specific risks across evidence summary analyses has been important family screening related outcomes will when using epidemiology knowledge questions unique cases / there potential biological
In economic decision-making individuals choose between items based on their perceived value. For both humans and nonhuman primates, these decisions are often carried out while shifting gaze between the available options. Recent studies in humans suggest that these shifts in gaze actively influence choice, manifesting as a bias in favor of the items that are viewed first, viewed last, or viewed for the overall longest duration in a given trial. This suggests a mechanism that links gaze behavior to the neural computations underlying value-based choices. In order to identify this mechanism, it is first necessary to develop and validate a suitable animal model of this behavior. To this end, we have created a novel value-based choice task for macaque monkeys that captures the essential features of the human paradigms in which gaze biases have been observed. Using this task, we identified gaze biases in the monkeys that were both qualitatively and quantitatively similar to those in humans. In addition, the monkeys gaze biases were well-explained using a sequential sampling model framework previously used to describe gaze biases in humans the first time this framework has been used to assess value-based decision mechanisms in nonhuman primates. Together, these findings suggest a common mechanism that can explain gaze-related choice biases across species, and open the way for mechanistic studies to identify the neural origins of this behavior. Explanation: eye visual attention brain information our eyes more people looking at how animals with data show when behaviors use different primate vision an approach other not but also be found neurons activity where may We monkey's (same stimuli directed fixspatial fixation patterns) The by what selection process models potential social cognitive control ability one important role many such study results from specific cells network et system large brains processing key future self mind us behavioral responses known subjects "1 evidence they own face images? Our seen properties shown emmake / present observers higher
Most phytophagous insect species exhibit a limited diet breadth and specialize on a few or a single host plant. In contrast, some species display a remarkably large diet breadth, with host plants spanning several families and many species. It is unclear, however, whether this phylogenetic generalism is supported by a generic metabolic use of common host chemical compounds (metabolic generalism) or alternatively by distinct uses of diet-specific compounds (multi-host metabolic specialism)? Here, we simultaneously investigated the metabolomes of fruit diets and of individuals of a generalist phytophagous species, Drosophila suzukii, that developed on them. The direct comparison of metabolomes of diets and consumers enabled us to disentangle the metabolic fate of common and rarer dietary compounds. We showed that the consumption of biochemically dissimilar diets resulted in a canalized, generic response from generalist individuals, consistent with the metabolic generalism hypothesis. We also showed that many diet-specific metabolites, such as those related to the particular color, odor, or taste of diets, were not metabolized, and rather accumulated in consumer individuals, even when probably detrimental to fitness. As a result, while individuals were mostly similar across diets, the detection of their particular diet was straightforward. Our study thus supports the view that dietary generalism may emerge from a passive, opportunistic use of various resources, contrary to more widespread views of an active role of adaptation in this process. Such a passive stance towards dietary chemicals, probably costly in the short term, might favor the later evolution of new diet specializations. Explanation: food generalant gut bacteria hosts for are organisms feeding these can be ants trophic groups associated nutrients which have evolved strategies used different but benefits mutuA resource then herbivores niche specialization digestive enzymes digestion foods insects pest management approach prey animals nutritional fruits health / parasites communities ecological studies our foraging ability it known how often complex nutrient within environment same results herbivore nutrition into important nature has beneficial fungi well studied mechanisms exploited microbes other than benefit soil invertebrates higher metabolism able they provide information most available knowledge functional all crops pests agricultural ecosystem potential novel biological
Multiple genetic changes in the enteric pathogen Yersinia pseudotuberculosis have driven the emergence of Yesinia pestis, the arthropod-borne, etiological agent of plague. These include developing the capacity for biofilm-dependent blockage of the flea foregut to enable transmission by flea bite. Previously, we showed that pseudogenization of rcsA, encoding a component of the Rcs signalling pathway, is an important evolutionary step facilitating Y. pestis flea-borne transmission. Additionally, rcsD, another important gene in the Rcs system, harbours a frameshift mutation. Here, we demonstrated that this rcsD mutation resulted in production of a small protein composing the C-terminal RcsD histidine-phosphotransferase domain (designated RcsD-Hpt) and full-length RcsD. Genetic analysis revealed that the rcsD frameshift mutation followed the emergence of rcsA pseudogenization. It further altered the canonical Rcs phosphorylation signal cascade, fine-tuning biofilm production to be conducive with retention of the pgm locus in modern lineages of Y. pestis. Taken together, our findings suggest that a frameshift mutation in rcsD is an important evolutionary step that fine-tuned biofilm production to ensure perpetuation of flea-mammal plague transmission cycles. Explanation: bacteria virulence factors are infection host cell surface bacterial cells expression on as S proteins 1 The disease pathogenesis E secretion systems genes from these can et found mutations strains ability their We also known mechanism use different which may or new conserved signaling pathways regulatory Csyhow pathogenic role has more such studies bacterium invasion human infections CS2 / s Salmonella enterica swell pathogens complex other mechanisms through development it was previously results In when two mutants non lethal mice model animal survival during infected mouse Ccoli O157 Seae type B both cause animals
The peer review process is a critical step in ensuring the quality of scientific research. However, its subjectivity has raised concerns. To investigate this issue, I examined over 500 publicly available peer review reports from 200 published neuroscience papers in 2022 2023. OpenAI s generative artificial intelligence ChatGPT was used to analyze language use in these reports, which demonstrated superior performance compared to traditional lexicon- and rule-based language models. As expected, most reviews for these published papers were seen as favorable by ChatGPT (89. 8% of reviews), and language use was mostly polite (99. 8% of reviews). However, this analysis also demonstrated high levels of variability in how each reviewer scored the same paper, indicating the presence of subjectivity in the peer review process. The results further revealed that female first authors received less polite reviews than their male peers, indicating a gender bias in reviewing. In addition, published papers with a female senior author received more favorable reviews than papers with a male senior author, for which I discuss potential causes. Together, this study highlights the potential of generative artificial intelligence in performing natural language processing of specialized scientific texts. As a proof of concept, I show that ChatGPT can identify areas of concern in scientific peer review, underscoring the importance of transparent peer review in studying equitability in scientific publishing. Explanation: article human brain data methods et studies are not on be well researchers' we ability have an impact reviewers all but should such important findings evidence one articles conclusions about our science many other key information found work evaluation A new method development it may result 1 report inaccuracy level when applied knowledge people's what? This two model art related text publication style scientists who men effect large health literature highly similar or e relevant issues different man machine learning techniques out using novel emp lal social network public much better medical imaging analyses
Hepatic metastases are a poor prognostic factor of colorectal carcinoma (CRC) and new strategies to reduce the risk of liver CRC colonization are highly needed. Herein, we used mouse models of hepatic metastatization to demonstrate that the continuous infusion of therapeutic doses of interferon-alpha (IFNα) controls CRC invasion by acting on hepatic endothelial cells (HECs). Mechanistically, IFNα promoted the development of a vascular antimetastatic niche characterized by liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) defenestration extracellular matrix and glycocalyx deposition, thus strengthening the liver vascular barrier impairing CRC trans-sinusoidal migration, without requiring a direct action on tumor cells, hepatic stellate cells, hepatocytes, or liver dendritic cells (DCs), Kupffer cells (KCs) and liver capsular macrophages (LCMs). Moreover, IFNα endowed LSECs with efficient cross-priming potential that, along with the early intravascular tumor burden reduction, supported the generation of antitumor CD8 + T cells and ultimately led to the establishment of a protective long-term memory T cell response. These findings provide a rationale for the use of continuous IFNα therapy in perioperative settings to reduce CRC metastatic spreading to the liver. Explanation: immune this is anti cancer patients can mice model tumors immunity responses treatment may an as these therapies approach systemic treatments have more IL 2 clinical data our studies The cytokines / We their be inflammatory blood levels during HCC disease treated which could human cancers high IL10% were cytokine expression at inflammation associated local IFN type 1 s how it has increased portal circulation time chemotherapy drugs combination first experimental results In vivo study also drug delivery system after injection oThis effect not only anticancer efficacy was well targeted gene VEGF A 5 such growth factors
Although vaccination is broadly used in North American swine breeding herds, managing swine influenza is challenging primarily due to the continuous evolution of influenza A virus (IAV) and the ability of the virus to transmit among vaccinated pigs. Studies that have simultaneously assessed the impact of vaccination on the emergence of IAV reassortment and genetic variation in pigs are limited. Here, we directly sequenced 28 bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) samples collected from vaccinated and unvaccinated pigs co-infected with H1N1 and H3N2 IAV strains, and characterized 202 individual viral plaques recovered from 13 BALF samples. We identified 54 reassortant viruses that were grouped in 17 single and 16 mixed genotypes. Notably, we found that prime-boost vaccinated pigs had less reassortant viruses than nonvaccinated pigs, likely due to a reduction in the number of days pigs were co-infected with both challenge viruses. However, direct sequencing from BALF samples revealed limited impact of vaccination on viral variant frequency, evolutionary rates, and nucleotide diversity in any IAV coding regions. Overall, our results highlight the value of IAV vaccination not only at limiting virus replication in pigs but also at protecting public health by restricting the generation of novel reassortants with zoonotic and / or pandemic potential. Explanation: vaccine strategies for vaccines development new infection disease H5N1 highly susceptible human respiratory lower lung infections more severe clinical pneumonia study as animals lungs this during which these may be high risk gene mutations important IAhumans exposure immune response against genes host cell immunity cross clade 1 has an when critical mice data predicted protective antibodies neutralizing antibody responses antiviral conserved epitopes specific previously studies can current known protection animal models 2 most similar between two different strain better understanding key proteins use As well approach developed effective one such The other how many candidate all present same
Aversive stimuli can cause hippocampal place cells to remap their firing fields, but it is not known whether remapping plays a role in storing memories of aversive experiences. Here, we addressed this question by performing in vivo calcium imaging of CA1 place cells in freely behaving rats (n = 14). Rats were first trained to prefer a short path over a long path for obtaining food reward, then trained to avoid the short path by delivering a mild footshock. Remapping was assessed by comparing place cell population vector similarity before acquisition versus after extinction of avoidance. Some rats received shock after systemic injections of the amnestic drug scopolamine at a dose (1 mg / kg) that impaired avoidance learning but spared spatial tuning and shock-evoked responses of CA1 neurons. Place cells remapped significantly more following remembered than forgotten shocks (drug-free versus scopolamine conditions); shock-induced remapping did not cause place fields to migrate toward or away from the shocked location and was similarly prevalent in cells that were responsive versus non-responsive to shocks. When rats were exposed to a neutral barrier rather than aversive shock, place cells remapped significantly less in response to the barrier. We conclude that place cell remapping occurs in response to events that are remembered rather than merely perceived and forgotten, suggesting that reorganization of hippocampal population codes may play a role in storing memories for aversive events. Explanation: memory new brain activity neural network with hippocampus during which information when experience animals learn these behavior as different use our ability have an environment map novel places where also on how sensory navigable previously fear conditioning approach behaviors associated mice same learned stimulus specific they al such found here system used model other electric stimulation effects space navigation related neuronal plasticity mechanisms using now A similar data rat's be well time one important locations within function areas activation patterns changes properties has been potential those results show context cues environmental control anxiety water maze training thus cognitive
HIV-1 infection results in the activation of inflammasome that may facilitate viral spread and establishment of viral reservoirs. We evaluated the effects of the caspase-1 inhibitor VX-765 on HIV-1 infection in humanized NSG mice engrafted with human CD34 + hematopoietic stem cells. Expression of caspase-1, NLRP3, and IL-1β was increased in lymph nodes and bone marrow between day 1 and 3 after HIV-1 infection (mean fold change (FC) of 2. 08, 3. 23, and 6. 05, p < 0. 001, respectively). IFI16 and AIM2 expression peaked at day 24 and coincides with increased IL-18 levels (6. 89 vs 83. 19 pg / ml, p = 0. 004), increased viral load and CD4 + T cells loss in blood (p < 0. 005 and p < 0. 0001, for the spleen respectively). Treatment with VX-765 significantly reduced TNF-α at day 11 (0. 47 vs 2. 2 pg / ml, p = 0. 045), IL-18 at day 22 (7. 8 vs 23. 2 pg / ml, p = 0. 04), CD4 + T cells (44. 3% vs 36, 7%, p = 0. 01), viral load (4. 26 vs 4. 89 log 10 copies / ml, p = 0. 027), and total HIV-1 DNA in the spleen (1 054 vs 2 889 copies / 106 cells, p = 0. 029). We demonstrated that targeting inflammasome activation early after infection may represent a therapeutic strategy towards HIV cure to prevent CD4 + T cell depletion and reduce immune activation, viral load, and the HIV-1 reservoir formation. Explanation: is virus infected by treatment we are anti inflammatory cytokines response gene inflammation activated host factors can be an this as disease control high death macrophages have which during these cytokine signaling pathway activity or patients memory B The -found model system development mechanisms study our mouse models data from cellular therapy strategies used antiviral innate immunity viruses specific responses also treated induced apoptosis genes function their were previously non survival more known mechanism through new drug combination antiretroviral therapies effective has not drugs target infections low replication level chronic myeloid AIDS pathogenesis key role In vivo studies cancer
The loss of a spouse is often cited as the most traumatic event in a person s life. However, for most people, the severity of grief and its maladaptive effects subside over time via an understudied adaptive process. Like humans, socially monogamous prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) form opposite-sex pair bonds, and upon partner separation, show stress phenotypes that diminish over time. We test the hypothesis that extended partner separation diminishes pair bond-associated behaviors and causes pair bond transcriptional signatures to erode. Opposite-sex or same-sex paired males were cohoused for 2 weeks and then either remained paired or were separated for 48 hours or 4 weeks before collecting fresh nucleus accumbens tissue for RNAseq. In a separate cohort, we assessed partner-directed affiliation at these time points. We found that these behaviors persist despite prolonged separation in both same-sex and opposite-sex paired voles. Opposite-sex pair bonding led to changes in accumbal transcription that were stably maintained while animals remained paired but eroded following prolonged partner separation. Eroded genes are associated with gliogenesis and myelination, suggesting a previously undescribed role for glia in pair bonding and loss. Further, we pioneered neuron-specific translating ribosomal affinity purification in voles. Neuronally enriched transcriptional changes revealed dopaminergic-, mitochondrial-, and steroid hormone signaling-associated gene clusters sensitive to acute pair bond disruption and loss adaptation. Our results suggest that partner separation erodes transcriptomic signatures of pair bonding despite core behavioral features of the bond remaining intact, revealing potential molecular processes priming a vole to be able to form a new bond. Explanation: brain network social attachment relationship more partners behavior this couple their male sexual health related human neurons expression have men's response also may well after they our how important such couples study rats "-on by when can play interactions between affect those relationships one has been during family care mice model anxiety / cells + 1 development which adult vesThis experience pairs ability it association novel self grooming system et function different mating species long future wonsurvival dependent animal Finally known rat brains from owA not even control group predicted unique emotional
Motor variability is a fundamental feature of developing systems allowing motor exploration and learning. In human infants, leg movements involve a small number of basic coordination patterns called locomotor primitives, but whether and when motor variability could emerge from these primitives remains unknown. Here we longitudinally followed 18 infants on 2 3 time points between birth (~ 4 days old) and walking onset (~ 14 months old) and recorded the activity of their leg muscles during locomotor or rhythmic movements. Using unsupervised machine learning, we show that the structure of trial-to-trial variability changes during early development. In the neonatal period, infants own a minimal number of motor primitives but generate a maximal motor variability across trials thanks to variable activations of these primitives. A few months later, toddlers generate significantly less variability despite the existence of more primitives due to more regularity within their activation. These results suggest that human neonates initiate motor exploration as soon as birth by variably activating a few basic locomotor primitives that later fraction and become more consistently activated by the motor system. Explanation: in children are this body movement pattern control our gait with infant's legs use for an adults muscle timing data et al model how can be new develop specific locomotion ability 1 not yet We observed humans have which also used different it may adult able at present study its such child models many other same task performance level neural network mechanisms coupling sensory brain information process complex nervous circuits involved behavior complexity The even two activities normal subjects similar has known action observation training developmental novel one spinal cord networks function they play / well people capacity neurons
The Global Typhoid Genomics Consortium was established to bring together the typhoid research community to aggregate and analyse Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi (Typhi) genomic data to inform public health action. This analysis, which marks 22 years since the publication of the first Typhi genome, represents the largest Typhi genome sequence collection to date (n = 13, 000). This is a meta-analysis of global genotype and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) determinants extracted from previously sequenced genome data and analysed using consistent methods implemented in open analysis platforms GenoTyphi and Pathogenwatch. Compared with previous global snapshots, the data highlight that genotype 4. 3. 1 (H58) has not spread beyond Asia and Eastern / Southern Africa; in other regions, distinct genotypes dominate and have independently evolved AMR. Data gaps remain in many parts of the world, and we show the potential of travel-associated sequences to provide informal sentinel surveillance for such locations. The data indicate that ciprofloxacin non-susceptibility (> 1 resistance determinant) is widespread across geographies and genotypes, with high-level ciprofloxacin resistance (≥ 3 determinants) reaching 20% prevalence in South Asia. Extensively drug-resistant (XDR) typhoid has become dominant in Pakistan (70% in 2020) but has not yet become established elsewhere. Ceftriaxone resistance has emerged in eight non-XDR genotypes, including a ciprofloxacin-resistant lineage (4. 3. 1. 2. 1) in India. Azithromycin resistance mutations were detected at low prevalence in South Asia, including in two common ciprofloxacin-resistant genotypes. The consortium s aim is to encourage continued data sharing and collaboration to monitor the emergence and global spread of AMR Typhi, and to inform decision-making around the introduction of typhoid conjugate vaccines (TCVs) and other prevention and control strategies. No specific funding was awarded for this meta-analysis. Coordinators were supported by fellowships from the European Union (ZAD received funding from the European Union s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under the Marie Sklodowska-Curie grant agreement No 845681), the Wellcome Trust (SB, Wellcome Trust Senior Fellowship), and the National Health and Medical Research Council (DJI is supported by an NHMRC Investigator Grant [GNT1195210]). Explanation: disease transmission studies are endemic countries infection risk antibiotic use interventions vaccine development new information system globally can be results study as well used tools strain strains clinical isolates bacterial population genetic S Typhimurium 0A more than infections outbreak pathogen carriage genes bacteria could novel antibiotics ceftriaxone susceptible gene Shigella dyseniccoli virulence human host immunity against these findings further our epidemiological genomics approach -understanding molecular epidemiology worldwide unique region different between genomes large epidemic outbreaks pathogens cause evidence also known how often or it all typhus fever cases found their leading time important whole country
To synchronize flowering time with spring, many plants undergo vernalization, a floral-promotion process triggered by exposure to long-term winter cold. In Arabidopsis thaliana, this is achieved through cold-mediated epigenetic silencing of the floral repressor, FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC). COOLAIR, a cold-induced antisense RNA transcribed from the FLC locus, has been proposed to facilitate FLC silencing. Here, we show that C-repeat (CRT) / dehydration-responsive elements (DREs) at the 3 ′ -end of FLC and CRT / DRE-binding factors (CBFs) are required for cold-mediated expression of COOLAIR. CBFs bind to CRT / DREs at the 3 ′ -end of FLC, both in vitro and in vivo, and CBF levels increase gradually during vernalization. Cold-induced COOLAIR expression is severely impaired in cbfs mutants in which all CBF genes are knocked-out. Conversely, CBF-overexpressing plants show increased COOLAIR levels even at warm temperatures. We show that COOLAIR is induced by CBFs during early stages of vernalization but COOLAIR levels decrease in later phases as FLC chromatin transitions to an inactive state to which CBFs can no longer bind. We also demonstrate that cbfs and FLCΔCOOLAIR mutants exhibit a normal vernalization response despite their inability to activate COOLAIR expression during cold, revealing that COOLAIR is not required for the vernalization process. Explanation: CRB DNA transcription factor gene regulatory Oplant 1 function on development under ABA low temperature regulation important fruit growth flower organ developmental changes have NAs flowers cells higher these may be mechanisms drought stress tolerance COR transcriptional activation or A new light environmental conditions control CONLgenetic studies The high molecular mechanism how cell nuclear BELL1 proteins complex two key regulators protein activity they known different CLF our circadian clock responses lncRNAs associated cis target genome loci such day length one regulate non essential wcrop species evolved conserved group functions previously results
HIV-1 reservoir cells that circulate in peripheral blood during suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART) have been well characterized, but little is known about the dissemination of HIV-1-infected cells across multiple anatomical tissues, especially the CNS. Here, we performed single-genome, near full-length HIV-1 next-generation sequencing to evaluate the proviral landscape in distinct anatomical compartments, including multiple CNS tissues, from 3 ART-treated participants at autopsy. While lymph nodes and, to a lesser extent, gastrointestinal and genitourinary tissues represented tissue hotspots for the persistence of intact proviruses, we also observed intact proviruses in CNS tissue sections, particularly in the basal ganglia. Multi-compartment dissemination of clonal intact and defective proviral sequences occurred across multiple anatomical tissues, including the CNS, and evidence for the clonal proliferation of HIV-1-infected cells was found in the basal ganglia, in the frontal lobe, in the thalamus and in periventricular white matter. Deep analysis of HIV-1 reservoirs in distinct tissues will be informative for advancing HIV-1 cure strategies. Explanation: brain viral latently infection latency cell are latent virus can with may treatment into drug sancsites this within or not has disease patients data studies which central nervous system as these were therapeutic potential new drugs reon could more than our model long survival cART tout an active replication specific therapies used immune T CD4 memory cellular response control human brains Tentry / The by study results gene DNA integration host resistance neurons non AIDS organs remain detectable levels after dtheir -present clinical samples high brisk people key information how anti retroviral
Circadian clocks are highly conserved transcriptional regulators that control ~ 24 hr oscillations in gene expression, physiological function, and behavior. Circadian clocks exist in almost every tissue and are thought to control tissue-specific gene expression and function, synchronized by the brain clock. Many disease states are associated with loss of circadian regulation. How and when circadian clocks fail during pathogenesis remains largely unknown because it is currently difficult to monitor tissue-specific clock function in intact organisms. Here, we developed a method to directly measure the transcriptional oscillation of distinct neuronal and peripheral clocks in live, intact Drosophila, which we term Locally Activatable BioLuminescence, or LABL. Using this method, we observed that specific neuronal and peripheral clocks exhibit distinct transcriptional properties. Loss of the receptor for PDF, a circadian neurotransmitter critical for the function of the brain clock, disrupts circadian locomotor activity but not all tissue-specific circadian clocks. We found that, while peripheral clocks in non-neuronal tissues were less stable after the loss of PDF signaling, they continued to oscillate. We also demonstrate that distinct clocks exhibit differences in their loss of oscillatory amplitude or their change in period, depending on their anatomical location, mutation, or fly age. Our results demonstrate that LABL is an effective tool that allows rapid, affordable, and direct real-time monitoring of individual clocks in vivo. Explanation: flies light rhythms molecular time1) The al cell oscillators neurons cells have these animals (as well endogenous biological rhythm system genes oscillator protein A / In model studies at mechanisms can be dentrphase entrainment timing information about our data mice two different levels BLD tim transcription factors proteins daily periods from under Dbother how may et development lability free animal's systems one day food environmental conditions has mechanism out complex fruit insects physiology such study many more important yet This new genetic models show; 2 s level temporal oscillating
Membrane trafficking pathways perform important roles in establishing and maintaining the endosomal network. Retrograde protein sorting from the endosome is promoted by conserved SNX-BAR-containing coat complexes including retromer which enrich cargo at tubular microdomains and generate transport carriers. In metazoans, retromer cooperates with VARP, a conserved VPS9-domain GEF, to direct an endosomal recycling pathway. The function of the yeast VARP homolog Vrl1 has been overlooked due to an inactivating mutation found in commonly studied strains. Here, we demonstrate that Vrl1 has features of a SNX-BAR coat protein and forms an obligate complex with Vin1, the paralog of the retromer SNX-BAR protein Vps5. Unique features in the Vin1 N-terminus allow Vrl1 to distinguish it from Vps5, thereby forming a complex that we have named VINE. The VINE complex occupies endosomal tubules and redistributes a conserved mannose 6-phosphate receptor-like protein from endosomes. We also find that membrane recruitment by Vin1 is essential for Vrl1 GEF activity, suggesting that VINE is a multifunctional coat complex that regulates trafficking and signaling events at the endosome. Explanation: Rabproteins vestheir cell vacuole endocytosis vesicle Rthis are vesicles tethering SNARE machinery traffic endocytic clathrin ARNas process vacuoles system into cells these) Golgi retrograde traffor membranes v assembly new budding coated organelle small EVs large unknown mechanisms (not required vesicular secretion EV receptors use cellular factors other such studies on our previously known role many sort intracellular localization regulated endA / but how key regulators binding interactions actin motor adaptor Sort vacuolar associated Snout be remodeling post targeting specific organelles can regulate components may similar processes through mechanism
The effects of temperature on interaction strengths are important for understanding and forecasting how global climate change impacts marine ecosystems; however, tracking and quantifying interactions of marine fish species are practically difficult especially under field conditions, and thus, how temperature influences their interaction strengths under field conditions remains poorly understood. We herein performed quantitative fish environmental DNA (eDNA) metabarcoding on 550 seawater samples that were collected twice a month from 11 coastal sites for 2 years in the Boso Peninsula, Japan, and analyzed eDNA monitoring data using nonlinear time series analytical tools. We detected fish fish interactions as information flow between eDNA time series, reconstructed interaction networks for the top 50 frequently detected species, and quantified pairwise, fluctuating interaction strengths. Although there was a large variation, water temperature influenced fish fish interaction strengths. The impact of water temperature on interspecific interaction strengths varied among fish species, suggesting that fish species identity influences the temperature effects on interactions. For example, interaction strengths that Halichoeres tenuispinis and Microcanthus strigatus received strongly increased with water temperature, while those of Engraulis japonicus and Girella punctata decreased with water temperature. An increase in water temperature induced by global climate change may change fish interactions in a complex way, which consequently influences marine community dynamics and stability. Our research demonstrates a practical research framework to study the effects of environmental variables on interaction strengths of marine communities in nature, which would contribute to understanding and predicting natural marine ecosystem dynamics. Explanation: we oceichtrophic food-system can ecological network this sea inwaters environment systems ocean organisms responses seas fishes results our knowledge have such an observed aquatic biotic more than these studies model many different methods used approach spatial abiotic factors known also other processes at studied environments changes predicted future potential effect fishing management strategies response models some present onshIn Sea level or not yet same but now seasons influence has well it into current approaches method use As process control human health risk assessment could be fishways et biological levels predict outcomes when weather
The avian palaeognath phylogeny has been recently revised significantly due to the advancement of genome-wide comparative analyses and provides the opportunity to trace the evolution of the microstructure and crystallography of modern dinosaur eggshells. Here, eggshells of all major clades of Palaeognathae (including extinct taxa) and selected eggshells of Neognathae and non-avian dinosaurs are analysed with electron backscatter diffraction. Our results show the detailed microstructures and crystallographies of (previously) loosely categorized ostrich-, rhea-, and tinamou-style morphotypes of palaeognath eggshells. All rhea-style eggshell appears homologous, while respective ostrich-style and tinamou-style morphotypes are best interpreted as homoplastic morphologies (independently acquired). Ancestral state reconstruction and parsimony analysis additionally show that rhea-style eggshell represents the ancestral state of palaeognath eggshells both in microstructure and crystallography. The ornithological and palaeontological implications of the current study are not only helpful for the understanding of evolution of modern and extinct dinosaur eggshells, but also aid other disciplines where palaeognath eggshells provide useful archive for comparative contrasts (e. g. palaeoenvironmental reconstructions, geochronology, and zooarchaeology). Explanation: a we fossil birds eggs from have evolutionary new fosis our ancient hens egg laying by their these may well known an us different species development during which were this it A / We found ovibody feaowl 1 layer structure on bird embryos evolved novel laid hen Eggs more than used model studies data old chicken Aat same or studied through knowledge can be important conserved genetic cell layers genes expression some molecular mechanisms cells structures how they similar In chickens atd into poultry bone matrix protein function As compared chick embryonic developmental time
Ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) fulfill an important role in communication and navigation in many species. Because of their social and affective significance, rodent USVs are increasingly used as a behavioral measure in neurodevelopmental and neurolinguistic research. Reliably attributing USVs to their emitter during close interactions has emerged as a difficult, key challenge. If addressed, all subsequent analyses gain substantial confidence. We present a hybrid ultrasonic tracking system, Hybrid Vocalization Localizer (HyVL), that synergistically integrates a high-resolution acoustic camera with high-quality ultrasonic microphones. HyVL is the first to achieve millimeter precision (~ 3. 4 4. 8 mm, 91% assigned) in localizing USVs, ~ 3 × better than other systems, approaching the physical limits (mouse snout ~ 10 mm). We analyze mouse courtship interactions and demonstrate that males and females vocalize in starkly different relative spatial positions, and that the fraction of female vocalizations has likely been overestimated previously due to imprecise localization. Further, we find that when two male mice interact with one female, one of the males takes a dominant role in the interaction both in terms of the vocalization rate and the location relative to the female. HyVL substantially improves the precision with which social communication between rodents can be studied. It is also affordable, open-source, easy to set up, can be integrated with existing setups, and reduces the required number of experiments and animals. Explanation: for call frequency sound sources vocal 1 calls human data this novel use by our results have more information on signals detection calling songbird song playback approach behavior not only time or humans complex sing these sounds signal model using The it owl owsex play stimuli loud 2 / In auditory at same but non show how they called from even higher frequencies range ultrasound A new questions ability found animal's hearing heard voices acouso listeners specific behaviors study potential uses known responses may sensitive brain regions processing sensory neurons neural activity into signaling
Sarcomeres are the force-producing units of all striated muscles. Their nanoarchitecture critically depends on the large titin protein, which in vertebrates spans from the sarcomeric Z-disc to the M-band and hence links actin and myosin filaments stably together. This ensures sarcomeric integrity and determines the length of vertebrate sarcomeres. However, the instructive role of titins for sarcomeric architecture outside of vertebrates is not as well understood. Here, we used a series of nanobodies, the Drosophila titin nanobody toolbox, recognising specific domains of the two Drosophila titin homologs Sallimus and Projectin to determine their precise location in intact flight muscles. By combining nanobodies with DNA-PAINT super-resolution microscopy, we found that, similar to vertebrate titin, Sallimus bridges across the flight muscle I-band, whereas Projectin is located at the beginning of the A-band. Interestingly, the ends of both proteins overlap at the I-band / A-band border, revealing a staggered organisation of the two Drosophila titin homologs. This architecture may help to stably anchor Sallimus at the myosin filament and hence ensure efficient force transduction during flight. Explanation: sarcomere thick thin cell fly power by function) structure this it can We also work more these an molecular motor binding interactions (1 + The essential myofibrillar attachment sites crossbridge structures important mechanical forces human studies flies cells use our ability linking or how many other drive heart beat time one myofiber cross myofibrils have been new molecules but they bind single fibers contractile model study using In vivo insect skeletal troponin T's linker attachments interaction between were previously results suggested conserved non functional key link regulation cardiac t lattice organization thus control expression level
Numerous cell functions are accompanied by phenotypic changes in viscoelastic properties, and measuring them can help elucidate higher level cellular functions in health and disease. We present a high-throughput, simple and low-cost microfluidic method for quantitatively measuring the elastic (storage) and viscous (loss) modulus of individual cells. Cells are suspended in a high-viscosity fluid and are pumped with high pressure through a 5. 8 cm long and 200 µm wide microfluidic channel. The fluid shear stress induces large, ear ellipsoidal cell deformations. In addition, the flow profile in the channel causes the cells to rotate in a tank-treading manner. From the cell deformation and tank treading frequency, we extract the frequency-dependent viscoelastic cell properties based on a theoretical framework developed by R. Roscoe [1] that describes the deformation of a viscoelastic sphere in a viscous fluid under steady laminar flow. We confirm the accuracy of the method using atomic force microscopy-calibrated polyacrylamide beads and cells. Our measurements demonstrate that suspended cells exhibit power-law, soft glassy rheological behavior that is cell-cycle-dependent and mediated by the physical interplay between the actin filament and intermediate filament networks. Explanation: stiffness mechanical forces this viscoflows ability at polymer network structure which as complex rheology model system our results have an cytoskeleton stiffer polymers dynamics their deformability data from these control material property also known how cytoskeletal protein polymerization process or shape change moduli more than be dynamic strain rate one proteins time scale observed mechanics response function not yet it may different many new methods used measure elasticity single molecule behaviors study found both materials systems other such experiments were mechanism but they determine gels formation non range gel structures deformable tissues / 2 models physics important role
Cardiac muscle has the highest mitochondrial density of any human tissue, but mitochondrial dysfunction is not a recognized cause of isolated cardiomyopathy. Here, we determined that the rare mitofusin (MFN) 2 R400Q mutation is 15 20 × over-represented in clinical cardiomyopathy, whereas this specific mutation is not reported as a cause of MFN2 mutant-induced peripheral neuropathy, Charcot Marie Tooth disease type 2A (CMT2A). Accordingly, we interrogated the enzymatic, biophysical, and functional characteristics of MFN2 Q400 versus wild-type and CMT2A-causing MFN2 mutants. All MFN2 mutants had impaired mitochondrial fusion, the canonical MFN2 function. Compared to MFN2 T105M that lacked catalytic GTPase activity and exhibited normal activation-induced changes in conformation, MFN2 R400Q and M376A had normal GTPase activity with impaired conformational shifting. MFN2 R400Q did not suppress mitochondrial motility, provoke mitochondrial depolarization, or dominantly suppress mitochondrial respiration like MFN2 T105M. By contrast to MFN2 T105M and M376A, MFN2 R400Q was uniquely defective in recruiting Parkin to mitochondria. CRISPR editing of the R400Q mutation into the mouse Mfn2 gene induced perinatal cardiomyopathy with no other organ involvement; knock-in of Mfn2 T105M or M376V did not affect the heart. RNA sequencing and metabolomics of cardiomyopathic Mfn2 Q / Q400 hearts revealed signature abnormalities recapitulating experimental mitophagic cardiomyopathy. Indeed, cultured cardiomyoblasts and in vivo cardiomyocytes expressing MFN2 Q400 had mitophagy defects with increased sensitivity to doxorubicin. MFN2 R400Q is the first known natural mitophagy-defective MFN2 mutant. Its unique profile of dysfunction evokes mitophagic cardiomyopathy, suggesting a mechanism for enrichment in clinical cardiomyopathy. Explanation: protein motor complex 1 cell mit mutations proteins are loss critical patients mtDNA diseases associated by which cells more likely these may be pathogenic role an on mutated Nfound novel genes expression also have previously studies mice cardiac fibrosis related their In form can et phenotype severe yet results from caused similar patient non essential many different genetic effects one important work The common mechanisms involved network structure how molecular pathology linked all such We model at cellular level two key organelle quality control pathways too most forms when present our knowledge A new data affected same membrane fission
Several previous lines of research have suggested, indirectly, that mouse lifespan is particularly susceptible to endocrine or nutritional signals in the first few weeks of life, as tested by manipulations of litter size, growth hormone levels, or mutations with effects specifically on early-life growth rate. The pace of early development in mice can also be influenced by exposure of nursing and weanling mice to olfactory cues. In particular, odors of same-sex adult mice can in some circumstances delay maturation. We hypothesized that olfactory information might also have a sex-specific effect on lifespan, and we show here that the lifespan of female mice can be increased significantly by odors from adult females administered transiently, that is from 3 days until 60 days of age. Female lifespan was not modified by male odors, nor was male lifespan susceptible to odors from adults of either sex. Conditional deletion of the G protein Gαo in the olfactory system, which leads to impaired accessory olfactory system function and blunted reproductive priming responses to male odors in females, did not modify the effect of female odors on female lifespan. Our data provide support for the idea that very young mice are susceptible to influences that can have long-lasting effects on health maintenance in later life, and provide a potential example of lifespan extension by olfactory cues in mice. Explanation: aging) longevity genes expression an old males brain sexual behaviors associated mechanisms this may important factors 1 food intake body fat energy diet feeding time eat more nutrition during (leptin signaling pathways control neurons survival our ability these metabolic / s animals nutrient offspring at how obesity related gene has been response genetic flies ages when nutrients fed studies their -eating behavior changes social novel environment benefits short it known many other but extend S adulthood? This new model 2 such et al A key role bacteria DNA cells could increase aged brains ageing men cognitive
Designer receptors exclusively activated by designer drugs (DREADDs) are chemogenetic tools for remote control of targeted cell populations using chemical actuators that bind to modified receptors. Despite the popularity of DREADDs in neuroscience and sleep research, potential effects of the DREADD actuator clozapine-N-oxide (CNO) on sleep have never been systematically tested. Here, we show that intraperitoneal injections of commonly used CNO doses (1, 5, and 10 mg / kg) alter sleep in wild-type male laboratory mice. Using electroencephalography (EEG) and electromyography (EMG) to analyse sleep, we found a dose-dependent suppression of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, changes in EEG spectral power during non-REM (NREM) sleep, and altered sleep architecture in a pattern previously reported for clozapine. Effects of CNO on sleep could arise from back-metabolism to clozapine or binding to endogenous neurotransmitter receptors. Interestingly, we found that the novel DREADD actuator, compound 21 (C21, 3 mg / kg), similarly modulates sleep despite a lack of back-metabolism to clozapine. Our results demonstrate that both CNO and C21 can modulate sleep of mice not expressing DREADD receptors. This implies that back-metabolism to clozapine is not the sole mechanism underlying side effects of chemogenetic actuators. Therefore, any chemogenetic experiment should include a DREADD-free control group injected with the same CNO, C21, or newly developed actuator. We suggest that electrophysiological sleep assessment could serve as a sensitive tool to test the biological inertness of novel chemogenetic actuators. Explanation: brain activity wakefulness wake system et drug use this neurons activation awake state rats behavior expression receptor gene circuit function neuronal firing rate when be s our studies an action it into work A new molecular genetic approach systems drive model other effect has these genes may The at data now orexin light shown dopamine D3 mouse 2 d al specific c sites activating their actions study also known which increased time optON signaling molecules ligand's clozapus ability neural circuits required behaviors locomotion animals body they high level after D1 stimulation induced rat food active learning
Microorganism sensing of and responding to ambient chemical gradients regulates a myriad of microbial processes that are fundamental to ecosystem function and human health and disease. The development of efficient, high-throughput screening tools for microbial chemotaxis is essential to disentangling the roles of diverse chemical compounds and concentrations that control cell nutrient uptake, chemorepulsion from toxins, and microbial pathogenesis. Here, we present a novel microfluidic multiplexed chemotaxis device (MCD) which uses serial dilution to simultaneously perform six parallel bacterial chemotaxis assays that span five orders of magnitude in chemostimulant concentration on a single chip. We first validated the dilution and gradient generation performance of the MCD, and then compared the measured chemotactic response of an established bacterial chemotaxis system (Vibrio alginolyticus) to a standard microfluidic assay. Next, the MCD s versatility was assessed by quantifying the chemotactic responses of different bacteria (Psuedoalteromonas haloplanktis, Escherichia coli) to different chemoattractants and chemorepellents. The MCD vastly accelerates the chemotactic screening process, which is critical to deciphering the complex sea of chemical stimuli underlying microbial responses. Explanation: cells chemoreceptors signaling their this as attrac1 food detection microbes signals our results et with can be previously found ability how these signal E growth conditions A not mechanisms use known molecules have ewell it also used method more such C systems into host bacterium strains specific microbe's two chemoattractant nature or using receptor sensory organisms respond chemicals environment flow out cellular model now data analysis time scale biological pathways studies mechanism many other molecular sensor proteins ligand binding interactions between signalling molecule ans / 2 new potential environmental effects regulatory genes expression levels but same
While neural crest development is known to be transcriptionally controlled via sequential activation of gene regulatory networks (GRNs), recent evidence increasingly implicates a role for post-transcriptional regulation in modulating the output of these regulatory circuits. Using available single-cell RNA-sequencing datasets from avian embryos to identify potential post-transcriptional regulators, we found that Elavl1, which encodes for an RNA-binding protein with roles in transcript stability, was enriched in the premigratory cranial neural crest. Perturbation of Elavl1 resulted in premature neural crest delamination from the neural tube as well as significant reduction in transcripts associated with the neural crest specification GRN, phenotypes that are also observed with downregulation of the canonical Wnt inhibitor Draxin. That Draxin is the primary target for stabilization by Elavl1 during cranial neural crest specification was shown by RNA-sequencing, RNA immunoprecipitation, RNA decay measurement, and proximity ligation assays, further supporting the idea that the downregulation of neural crest specifier expression upon Elavl1 knockdown was largely due to loss of Draxin. Importantly, exogenous Draxin rescued cranial neural crest specification defects observed with Elavl1 knockdown. Thus, Elavl1 plays a critical a role in the maintenance of cranial neural crest specification via Draxin mRNA stabilization. Together, these data highlight an important intersection of post-transcriptional regulation with modulation of the neural crest specification GRN. Explanation: developmental pathways genes function et our results early fate cells signaling pathway can We previously dThe this genetic studies mechanism control factors have their In at or more transcription factor interactions Drosophila Hox RNAs levels DE enhancer activity ets al other may E many vertebrate brain tissue non conserved Dembryonic zebrafish dorsal anterior hindbrain neurons specific mechanisms such A / yan axis Xenopus laevis g2 vesXdeveloping it not required fly enhancers org This novel molecular network human functional model how one study on same effects different has eability but both normal essential mRNAs
Breathing, and the motor circuits that control it, is essential for life. At the core of respiratory circuits are Dbx1-derived interneurons, which generate the rhythm and pattern of breathing, and phrenic motor neurons (MNs), which provide the final motor output that drives diaphragm muscle contractions during inspiration. Despite their critical function, the principles that dictate how respiratory circuits assemble are unknown. Here, we show that coordinated activity of a type I cadherin (N-cadherin) and type II cadherins (Cadherin-6, -9, and -10) is required in both MNs and Dbx1-derived neurons to generate robust respiratory motor output. Both MN- and Dbx1-specific cadherin inactivation in mice during a critical developmental window results in perinatal lethality due to respiratory failure and a striking reduction in phrenic MN bursting activity. This combinatorial cadherin code is required to establish phrenic MN cell body and dendritic topography; surprisingly, however, cell body position appears to be dispensable for the targeting of phrenic MNs by descending respiratory inputs. Our findings demonstrate that type I and II cadherins function cooperatively throughout the respiratory circuit to generate a robust breathing output and reveal novel strategies that drive the assembly of motor circuits. Explanation: expression neural network with more neuron synaptic connections et development mechanisms 1 not cells spinal cord this on identified as inspiratory motoneurons axons pathways commissural networks connectivity between these synapses normal neuronal excitatory glutamatergic inhibitory glycinecoupling important We previously found at functional role different from have / s well together all but Bal ABSTRACT The developing Nor expiratory activation patterns linking membrane potential firing frequency regulation mechanism may E junction signaling complex one key such an electrical current breaus driving neuromuscular junctions many thoracic level c study our synapse number brain circuitry can nervous system
The powerful allure of social media platforms has been attributed to the human need for social rewards. Here, we demonstrate that the spread of misinformation on such platforms is facilitated by existing social carrots (e. g., likes) and sticks (e. g., dislikes) that are dissociated from the veracity of the information shared. Testing 951 participants over six experiments, we show that a slight change to the incentive structure of social media platforms, such that social rewards and punishments are contingent on information veracity, produces a considerable increase in the discernment of shared information. Namely, an increase in the proportion of true information shared relative to the proportion of false information shared. Computational modeling (i. e., drift-diffusion models) revealed the underlying mechanism of this effect is associated with an increase in the weight participants assign to evidence consistent with discerning behavior. The results offer evidence for an intervention that could be adopted to reduce misinformation spread, which in turn could reduce violence, vaccine hesitancy and political polarization, without reducing engagement. Explanation: data people use these health public as knowledge about have more research questions can et our studies their who used one how many individuals or population they also known other not found out study may it same interventions strategies 1 disease risk behaviors "We were new findings some help system potential impact factors understanding what those effective but high prevalence rates across network related networks different between where novel technology based systems approach researchers methods unknown important model's ability was well communication online communities using popular users? self reported survey find common source identified groups influence through
The disassembly of microtubules can generate force and drive intracellular motility. During mitosis, for example, chromosomes remain persistently attached via kinetochores to the tips of disassembling microtubules, which pull the sister chromatids apart. According to the conformational wave hypothesis, such force generation requires that protofilaments curl outward from the disassembling tips to exert pulling force directly on kinetochores. Rigorously testing this idea will require modifying the mechanical and energetic properties of curling protofilaments, but no way to do so has yet been described. Here, by direct measurement of working strokes generated in vitro by curling protofilaments, we show that their mechanical energy output can be increased by adding magnesium, and that yeast microtubules generate larger and more energetic working strokes than bovine microtubules. Both the magnesium and species-dependent increases in work output can be explained by lengthening the protofilament curls, without any change in their bending stiffness or intrinsic curvature. These observations demonstrate how work output from curling protofilaments can be tuned and suggest evolutionary conservation of the amount of curvature strain energy stored in the microtubule lattice. Explanation: a forces power cell shape DNA is cells ability actin cytoskeleton dynamics are (tubulin protein with ATP binding proteins) model system it EB1 motor active growth plus length control mechanism not function assembly powers an as these new studies We also 1 kinesin spindle pole kinetochore A + / In essential conserved structure at many other similar motors complex required cargo molecular mechanisms centricilia dynein arms ends mitotic chromosome movement minus one have study role regulation non important cellular structures may they all our experiments using different spindles aster astrus asters human Kines2 ar
When attacked, hagfishes produce a soft, fibrous defensive slime within a fraction of a second by ejecting mucus and threads into seawater. The rapid setup and remarkable expansion of the slime make it a highly effective and unique form of defense. How this biomaterial evolved is unknown, although circumstantial evidence points to the epidermis as the origin of the thread- and mucus-producing cells in the slime glands. Here, we describe large intracellular threads within a putatively homologous cell type from hagfish epidermis. These epidermal threads averaged ~ 2 mm in length and ~ 0. 5 μm in diameter. The entire hagfish body is covered by a dense layer of epidermal thread cells, with each square millimeter of skin storing a total of ~ 96 cm threads. Experimentally induced damage to a hagfish s skin caused the release of threads, which together with mucus, formed an adhesive epidermal slime that is more fibrous and less dilute than the defensive slime. Transcriptome analysis further suggests that epidermal threads are ancestral to the slime threads, with duplication and diversification of thread genes occurring in parallel with the evolution of slime glands. Our results support an epidermal origin of hagfish slime, which may have been driven by selection for stronger and more voluminous slime. Explanation: bacteria secretion water on (1) new gene expression et development mechanisms A not function found proteins secretions production their use adhesion work also these produced tS our studies can be similar but ability stickus different bacterial attachment surface protein adhesives complex extracellular glue many other secreted when used E / ant species biofilm formation mechanism has We previously known human health protective host infection associated disease role or animal life arms immunity system important microbes organisms how? study immune response against bacterium specific anti cellular ans infections were animals pathogenic factors involved same diseases
There are no pharmacological disease-modifying treatments with an enduring effect to mitigate the seizures and comorbidities of established chronic temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). This study aimed to evaluate for disease modifying effects of sodium selenate treatment in the chronically epileptic rat post-status epilepticus (SE) model of drug-resistant TLE. Wistar rats underwent kainic acid-induced SE or sham. Ten-weeks post-SE, animals received sodium selenate, levetiracetam, or vehicle subcutaneousinfusion continuously for 4 weeks. To evaluate the effects of the treatments, one week of continuous video-EEG was acquired before, during, and 4, 8 weeks post-treatment, followed by behavioral tests. Targeted and untargeted proteomics and metabolomics were performed on post-mortem brain tissue to identify potential pathways associated with modified disease outcomes. Telomere length was investigated as a novel surrogate marker of epilepsy disease severity in our current study. The results showed that sodium selenate treatment was associated with mitigation of measures of disease severity at 8 weeks post-treatment cessation; reducing the number of spontaneous seizures (p < 0. 05), cognitive dysfunction (p < 0. 05), and sensorimotor deficits (p < 0. 01). Moreover, selenate treatment was associated with increased protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) expression, reduced hyperphosphorylated tau, and reversed telomere length shortening (p < 0. 05). Network medicine integration of multi-omics / pre-clinical outcomes identified protein-metabolite modules positively correlated with TLE. Our results provide evidence that treatment with sodium selenate results in a sustained disease-modifying effect in chronically epileptic rats in the post-KA SE model of TLE, including improved comorbid learning and memory deficits. Explanation: hippocampal selenium is epileptseizure more we treated animal models studies network this after development antiepileptic valproate long life time 1 se mechanisms against may therapeutic response changes hippocampus sclerosis patients data from experimental have not new drugs use these also early onset anti synaptic glutamate protective role all develop when can be used water specific which previously work known human cell death gene regulation neuronal oxidative stress involved Alzheimer's dementia risk factors such In later non survival years cognition function sei s well studied mechanism it has -We control SEif cells high levels neurons sel
Fragility fracture is associated with an increased risk of mortality, but mortality is not part of doctor-patient communication. Here, we introduce a new concept called Skeletal Age as the age of an individual s skeleton resulting from a fragility fracture to convey the combined risk of fracture and fracture-associated mortality for an individual. We used the Danish National Hospital Discharge Register which includes the whole-country data of 1, 667, 339 adults in Denmark born on or before January 1, 1950, who were followed up to December 31, 2016 for incident low-trauma fracture and mortality. Skeletal age is defined as the sum of chronological age and the number of years of life lost (YLL) associated with a fracture. Cox s proportional hazards model was employed to determine the hazard of mortality associated with a specific fracture for a given risk profile, and the hazard was then transformed into YLL using the Gompertz law of mortality. During the median follow-up period of 16 years, there had been 307, 870 fractures and 122, 744 post-fracture deaths. A fracture was associated with between 1 and 7 years of life lost, with the loss being greater in men than women. Hip fractures incurred the greatest loss of life years. For instance, a 60-year-old individual with a hip fracture is estimated to have a skeletal age of 66 for men and 65 for women. Skeletal Age was estimated for each age and fracture site stratified by gender. We propose Skeletal Age as a new metric to assess the impact of a fragility fracture on an individual s life expectancy. This approach will enhance doctor-patient risk communication about the risks associated with osteoporosis. National Health and Medical Research Council in Australia and Amgen Competitive Grant Program 2019. Explanation: bone health that patients survival outcomes study death rates are more people at older ages population one cause all survivors after 10% has The time over this can be clinical care related quality 5 disease experienced osteoporotic vertebral body spine injury results treatment they also such individuals? Fracture incidence rate elderly studies when predicted fatal outcome may future significant information now knowledge how well these lethal falls major OsteopoFractures causes died predict their In common femoral first three times non even aging mean lives affected important reduce overall it occur among same level found tse adult
Accurate brain tissue extraction on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data is crucial for analyzing brain structure and function. While several conventional tools have been optimized to handle human brain data, there have been no generalizable methods to extract brain tissues for multimodal MRI data from rodents, nonhuman primates, and humans. Therefore, developing a flexible and generalizable method for extracting whole brain tissue across species would allow researchers to analyze and compare experiment results more efficiently. Here, we propose a domain-adaptive and semi-supervised deep neural network, named the Brain Extraction Net (BEN), to extract brain tissues across species, MRI modalities, and MR scanners. We have evaluated BEN on 18 independent datasets, including 783 rodent MRI scans, 246 nonhuman primate MRI scans, and 4601 human MRI scans, covering five species, four modalities, and six MR scanners with various magnetic field strengths. Compared to conventional toolboxes, the superiority of BEN is illustrated by its robustness, accuracy, and generalizability. Our proposed method not only provides a generalized solution for extracting brain tissue across species but also significantly improves the accuracy of atlas registration, thereby benefiting the downstream processing tasks. As a novel fully automated deep-learning method, BEN is designed as an open-source software to enable high-throughput processing of neuroimaging data across species in preclinical and clinical applications. Explanation: that model are machine image analysis models large scale can be accurate this et The studies non experimental mouse brains images task our ability 1 using which has eresearch networks information system development new anatomical regions such important work many other compared anatomy knowledge extracted techniques these study when dataset different approach maps show how well performance use it may used previously known experiments cortical volumes matter structures In contrast between mapping systems level functional connectivity fMRI blood flow specific white fiber tracts crossing / gray structural diffusion cortex their findings were all region differences tract nodes complex at
Heme can serve as iron source in many environments, including the iron-poor animal host environment. The fungal pathobiont Candida albicans expresses a family of extracellular CFEM hemophores that capture heme from host proteins and transfer it across the cell wall to the cell membrane, to be endocytosed and utilized as heme or iron source. Here, we identified Frp1 and Frp2, two ferric reductase (FRE) -related proteins that lack an extracellular N-terminal substrate-binding domain, as being required for hemoglobin heme utilization and for sensitivity to toxic heme analogs. Frp1 and Frp2 redistribute to the plasma membrane in the presence of hemin, consistent with a direct role in heme trafficking. Expression of Frp1 with the CFEM hemophore Pga7 can promote heme utilization in Saccharomyces cerevisiae as well, confirming the functional interaction between these proteins. Sequence and structure comparison reveals that the CFEM hemophores are related to the FRE substrate-binding domain that is missing in Frp1 / 2. We conclude that Frp1 / 2 and the CFEM hemophores form a functional complex that evolved from FREs to enable extracellular heme uptake. Explanation: yeast cells 1 by this protein use mechanism A new function studies on siderIron In fungi pathogenic human red blood erythroid fability bind their also known which disease infection model entry into used receptors ligand specific mechanisms have not found cellular process release factors expression such essential genes secretion system E falciparum malaria parasite invasion growth factor receptor interactions one they other our results infected erythrocytes Plasmodium virulence P enter signaling pathways through pathogen associated bacteria infections may parasites more important but study This novel strategies pathogenesis fungus fumigatus hyphae high production As key molecules involved fungf
The seventh pandemic of the diarrheal cholera disease, which began in 1960, is caused by the Gram-negative bacterium Vibrio cholerae. Its environmental persistence provoking recurring sudden outbreaks is enabled by V. cholerae s rapid adaption to changing environments involving sensory proteins like ToxR and ToxS. Located at the inner membrane, ToxR and ToxS react to environmental stimuli like bile acid, thereby inducing survival strategies for example bile resistance and virulence regulation. The presented crystal structure of the sensory domains of ToxR and ToxS in combination with multiple bile acid interaction studies, reveals that a bile binding pocket of ToxS is only properly folded upon binding to ToxR. Our data proposes an interdependent functionality between ToxR transcriptional activity and ToxS sensory function. These findings support the previously suggested link between ToxRS and VtrAC-like co-component systems. Besides VtrAC, ToxRS is now the only experimentally determined structure within this recently defined superfamily, further emphasizing its significance. In-depth analysis of the ToxRS complex reveals its remarkable conservation across various Vibrio species, underlining the significance of conserved residues in the ToxS barrel and the more diverse ToxR sensory domain. Unravelling the intricate mechanisms governing ToxRS s environmental sensing capabilities, provides a promising tool for disruption of this vital interaction, ultimately inhibiting Vibrio s survival and virulence. Our findings hold far-reaching implications for all Vibrio strains that rely on the ToxRS system as a shared sensory cornerstone for adapting to their surroundings. Explanation: bacterial response bacteria signaling receptor protein we regulatory A (ability toxin secretion) receptors are signal pathways Rthese cells found mechanism toxfactors also known toxins host cell responses Tet activation or how important role from have specific two genes tour results associated such As well different other one key pathogenic E coli infection may be identified new potential use study food related strain intestinal colonization factor type B / pathogen's We can it has unique but not yet enteropathogenesis they same expression when used Salmonella enterrisk human health diarrhea severe water exposure
The hippocampus supports multiple cognitive functions including episodic memory. Recent work has highlighted functional differences along the anterior posterior axis of the human hippocampus, but the neuroanatomical underpinnings of these differences remain unclear. We leveraged track-density imaging to systematically examine anatomical connectivity between the cortical mantle and the anterior posterior axis of the in vivo human hippocampus. We first identified the most highly connected cortical areas and detailed the degree to which they preferentially connect along the anterior posterior axis of the hippocampus. Then, using a tractography pipeline specifically tailored to measure the location and density of streamline endpoints within the hippocampus, we characterised where these cortical areas preferentially connect within the hippocampus. Our results provide new and detailed insights into how specific regions along the anterior posterior axis of the hippocampus are associated with different cortical inputs / outputs and provide evidence that both gradients and circumscribed areas of dense extrinsic anatomical connectivity exist within the human hippocampus. These findings inform conceptual debates in the field and emphasise the importance of considering the hippocampus as a heterogeneous structure. Overall, our results represent a major advance in our ability to map the anatomical connectivity of the human hippocampus in vivo and inform our understanding of the neural architecture of hippocampal-dependent memory systems in the human brain. Explanation: this is) information network model by data have knowledge system for important structural connections AD patients studies on function may not yet more such an were limbic cortex large hippocampspatial entorhinal (1 pathways from study their region it relationship Alzheimer disease cognition related novel hIn temporal lobe complex s well known also other structures when studied anatomy white matter tracts connecting networks et al high atlas whole show key nodes models association future research potential role was previously found out pathway connection patterns unique tract linking process Hippocampal cells at those can be area critical many
Stimulator of interferon genes (STING) is activated after detection of cytoplasmic dsDNA by cGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP synthase) as part of the innate immunity defence against viral pathogens. STING binds TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). TBK1 mutations are associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and the STING pathway has been implicated in the pathogenesis of further neurodegenerative diseases. To test whether STING activation is sufficient to induce neurodegeneration, we analysed a mouse model that expresses the constitutively active STING variant N153S. In this model, we focused on dopaminergic neurons, which are particularly sensitive to stress and represent a circumscribed population that can be precisely quantified. In adult mice expressing N153S STING, the number of dopaminergic neurons was smaller than in controls, as was the density of dopaminergic axon terminals and the concentration of dopamine in the striatum. We also observed alpha-synuclein pathology and a lower density of synaptic puncta. Neuroinflammation was quantified by staining astroglia and microglia, by measuring mRNAs, proteins and nuclear translocation of transcription factors. These neuroinflammatory markers were already elevated in juvenile mice although at this age the number of dopaminergic neurons was still unaffected, thus preceding the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. More neuroinflammatory markers were blunted in mice deficient for inflammasomes than in mice deficient for signalling by type I interferons. Neurodegeneration, however, was blunted in both mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that chronic activation of the STING pathway is sufficient to cause degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. Targeting the STING pathway could therefore be beneficial in Parkinson s disease and further neurodegenerative diseases. Explanation: brain cells response gene expression neuronal cell death mechanisms human patients studies our signaling pathways an induced protein known or not DNA virus infection pathogenic role it may A more PD nigra damage effects The responses genetic loss function involved host cellular models Drosophila motor neuron one animal survival when sense RNA stimulation results their normal key mechanism infected glial levels mRNA from found viruses brains injury stimuli have same ability develop nerve system related data This study Ispecific non important healthy tOur protective autophagy 3 forms Gif other anti mitochondrial antiviral immune complex production increased but
Despite the remarkable successes of cancer immunotherapies, the majority of patients will experience only partial response followed by relapse of resistant tumors. While treatment resistance has frequently been attributed to clonal selection and immunoediting, comparisons of paired primary and relapsed tumors in melanoma and breast cancers indicate that they share the majority of clones. Here, we demonstrate in both mouse models and clinical human samples that tumor cells evade immunotherapy by generating unique transient cell-in-cell structures, which are resistant to killing by T cells and chemotherapies. While the outer cells in this cell-in-cell formation are often killed by reactive T cells, the inner cells remain intact and disseminate into single tumor cells once T cells are no longer present. This formation is mediated predominantly by IFNγ-activated T cells, which subsequently induce phosphorylation of the transcription factors signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and early growth response-1 (EGR-1) in tumor cells. Indeed, inhibiting these factors prior to immunotherapy significantly improves its therapeutic efficacy. Overall, this work highlights a currently insurmountable limitation of immunotherapy and reveals a previously unknown resistance mechanism which enables tumor cells to survive immune-mediated killing without altering their immunogenicity. Explanation: therapy with can be mechanisms for an immunity responses may or as signaling IL 2 cytokines signals activation gene expression The on our model how cytokine receptor inhibition strategies use anti drug target treatments have more effective but also could checkpoint inhibitors combination chemotherapy drugs used disease targeted agents not results were novel treated patient survival benefit from antibodies targeting approaches using antibody development new data studies many other such We therapeutics strategy it was when mice / activity antitumor effect found even two important genes high sensitivity mutations specific pathways inhibitor known molecules against et function associated c protein
Theory of Mind (ToM) refers to the cognitive ability to attribute mental states to other individuals. This ability extends even to the attribution of mental states to animations featuring simple geometric shapes, such as the Frith-Happé animations in which two triangles move either purposelessly (Random condition), exhibit purely physical movement (Goal-directed condition), or move as if one triangle is reacting to the other triangle s mental states (ToM condition). While this capacity in humans has been thoroughly established, research on nonhuman primates has yielded inconsistent results. This study explored how marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a highly social primate species, process Frith-Happé animations by examining gaze patterns and brain activations of marmosets and humans as they observed these animations. We revealed that both marmosets and humans exhibited longer fixations on one of the triangles in ToM animations, compared to other conditions. However, we did not observe the same pattern of longer overall fixation duration on the ToM animations in marmosets as identified in humans. Furthermore, our findings reveal that both species activated extensive and comparable brain networks when viewing ToM versus Random animations, suggesting that marmosets differentiate between these scenarios similarly to humans. While marmosets did not mimic human overall fixation patterns, their gaze behavior and neural activations indicate a distinction between ToM and non-ToM scenarios. This study expands our understanding of nonhuman primate cognitive abilities, shedding light on potential similarities and differences in ToM processing between marmosets and humans. Explanation: mind people with monkeys are for use visual cognition model more than animals have also monkey brains approach behaviors an observation similar information processes models can be found knowledge complex but different from show action / animal's The well things known data motion perception system used cells cortical areas network function analysis using mechanisms development novel neurons activity et it may role cell body structure shown here studies cortex regions 1 neuronal circuits systems then mammals higher level vision task specific while macaque spatial memory object representations were previously functional imaging at those key face world shape stimuli "
Coordinated regulation of gene activity by transcriptional and translational mechanisms poise stem cells for a timely cell-state transition during differentiation. Although important for all stemness-to-differentiation transitions, mechanistic understanding of the fine-tuning of gene transcription is lacking due to the compensatory effect of translational control. We used intermediate neural progenitor (INP) identity commitment to define the mechanisms that fine-tune stemness gene transcription in fly neural stem cells (neuroblasts). We demonstrate that the transcription factor FruitlessC (FruC) binds cis-regulatory elements of most genes uniquely transcribed in neuroblasts. Loss of fruC function alone has no effect on INP commitment but drives INP dedifferentiation when translational control is reduced. FruC negatively regulates gene expression by promoting low-level enrichment of the repressive histone mark H3K27me3 in gene cis-regulatory regions. Identical to fruC loss-of-function, reducing Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 activity increases stemness gene activity. We propose low-level H3K27me3 enrichment fine-tunes gene transcription in stem cells, a mechanism likely conserved from flies to humans. Explanation: brain development neurons this are we epigenetic factors binding DNA methylation at chromatin active specific with which can be The these same fate neuronal self renewal progenitors an In as our lineage adult neurogenesis process their such developmental changes protein 1 neuron key role Drosophila nervous system one proteins known different levels mRNA + / or more have it may previously results new molecular post repression complex formation RNA de not only required cellular response genetic information processes human data This how model studies into also other similar fruit glia activation 5 embryonic CNS tissue where induced they found many
Billions of apoptotic cells are removed daily in a human adult by professional phagocytes (e. g. macrophages) and neighboring nonprofessional phagocytes (e. g. stromal cells). Despite being a type of professional phagocyte, neutrophils are thought to be excluded from apoptotic sites to avoid tissue inflammation. Here, we report a fundamental and unexpected role of neutrophils as the predominant phagocyte responsible for the clearance of apoptotic hepatic cells in the steady state. In contrast to the engulfment of dead cells by macrophages, neutrophils burrowed directly into apoptotic hepatocytes, a process we term perforocytosis, and ingested the effete cells from the inside. The depletion of neutrophils caused defective removal of apoptotic bodies, induced tissue injury in the mouse liver, and led to the generation of autoantibodies. Human autoimmune liver disease showed similar defects in the neutrophil-mediated clearance of apoptotic hepatic cells. Hence, neutrophils possess a specialized immunologically silent mechanism for the clearance of apoptotic hepatocytes through perforocytosis, and defects in this key housekeeping function of neutrophils contribute to the genesis of autoimmune liver disease. Explanation: that inflammatory cell apoptosis is killing immune system can damage livers with these mice model studies on death organs damaged tissues an their normal or healthy more our phagocytosis ability dying host response mechanisms cleared non also have not but may control hepatocyte loss during which were cellular phagocytocytes own phagocytic receptors eat associated bacteria infected macrophage specific uptake Kupffer s it when found activated 1 / We previously work how such study models other than infection factors anti two different functional opnat resolution autophagy receptor signaling pathways "A new treatment understanding what could health patients
Elaborate behaviours are produced by tightly controlled flexor-extensor motor neuron activation patterns. Motor neurons are regulated by a network of interneurons within the spinal cord, but the computational processes involved in motor control are not fully understood. The neuroanatomical arrangement of motor and premotor neurons into topographic patterns related to their controlled muscles is thought to facilitate how information is processed by spinal circuits. Rabies retrograde monosynaptic tracing has been used to label premotor interneurons innervating specific motor neuron pools, with previous studies reporting topographic mediolateral positional biases in flexor and extensor premotor interneurons. To more precisely define how premotor interneurons contacting specific motor pools are organized, we used multiple complementary viral-tracing approaches in mice to minimize systematic biases associated with each method. Contrary to expectations, we found that premotor interneurons contacting motor pools controlling flexion and extension of the ankle are highly intermingled rather than segregated into specific domains like motor neurons. Thus, premotor spinal neurons controlling different muscles process motor instructions in the absence of clear spatial patterns among the flexor-extensor circuit components. Explanation: this for) motoneurons synaptic connections between these cells activity from identified excitatory pathways et al (previously on have known inhibitory inputs drive sensory axons projections back movement it as well other function inhibition motoneuron networks connectivity pattern may or cell body movements can presynaptic circuitry an which also number neuronal groups descending comman1 / s results walking leg proprioceptive system use reflex neural our locomotion central nervous systems final common knowledge muscle one important role legs further study hind limbs were all mechanisms such same yet unknown nerve signals pathway commissural I1 dorsal crossing nerves future they
Respiration can induce motion and CO2 fluctuation during resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI) scans, which will lead to non-neural artifacts in the rsfMRI signal. In the meantime, as a crucial physiologic process, respiration can directly drive neural activity change in the brain, and may thereby modulate the rsfMRI signal. Nonetheless, this potential neural component in the respiration fMRI relationship is largely unexplored. To elucidate this issue, here we simultaneously recorded the electrophysiology, rsfMRI, and respiration signals in rats. Our data show that respiration is indeed associated with neural activity changes, evidenced by a phase-locking relationship between slow respiration variations and the gamma-band power of the electrophysiological signal recorded in the anterior cingulate cortex. Intriguingly, slow respiration variations are also linked to a characteristic rsfMRI network, which is mediated by gamma-band neural activity. In addition, this respiration-related brain network disappears when brain-wide neural activity is silenced at an isoelectrical state, while the respiration is maintained, further confirming the necessary role of neural activity in this network. Taken together, this study identifies a respiration-related brain network underpinned by neural activity, which represents a novel component in the respiration rsfMRI relationship that is distinct from respiration-related rsfMRI artifacts. It opens a new avenue for investigating the interactions between respiration, neural activity, and resting-state brain networks in both healthy and diseased conditions. Explanation: respiratory sinus breathing functional connectivity rs coupling 1 not found be our studies BOLD blood flow et imaging physiology on have these breath frequency heart rate control lung ventilation information how or subjects specific physiological stheir We observed results were more complex patterns sleep apnea patients high states human cerebral sinuses gas dependent current has eThe normal breaother but present analysis method used different regions under such subject's / s task correlation function local circuits important higher nervous system it was previously health tissue oxygen level 2 known disease association findings out experimental all those effects
Predators that target multiple prey types are predicted to switch foraging modes according to prey profitability to increase energy returns in dynamic environments. Here, we use bat-borne tags and DNA metabarcoding of feces to test the hypothesis that greater mouse-eared bats make immediate foraging decisions based on prey profitability and changes in the environment. We show that these bats use two foraging strategies with similar average nightly captures of 25 small, aerial insects and 29 large, ground-dwelling insects per bat, but with much higher capture success in the air (76%) vs ground (30%). However, owing to the 3 20 times larger ground prey, 85% of the nightly food acquisition comes from ground prey despite the 2. 5 times higher failure rates. We find that most bats use the same foraging strategy on a given night suggesting that bats adapt their hunting behavior to weather and ground conditions. We conclude that these bats use high risk-high gain gleaning of ground prey as a primary foraging tactic, but switch to aerial hunting when environmental changes reduce the profitability of ground prey, showing that prey switching matched to environmental dynamics plays a key role in covering the energy intake even in specialized predators. Explanation: ant species ants for is time by this more approach feeding detection an used information predator's which can be different our study how animals using it also A not or at landscape ecological niche 1 spatial host flies data land area where have potential habitat The important roal resources distribution patterns within sites specific buses habitats such tecology model organisms abundance sampling methods many other than results et communities ecosystems top trophic level diet generalist animal population exploit nature known ecosystem system may control human health pest management tools disease / landscapes resource agricultural harvest wild
The evolution of human right-handedness has been intensively debated for decades. Manual lateralization patterns in non-human primates have the potential to elucidate evolutionary determinants of human handedness, but restricted species samples and inconsistent methodologies have so far limited comparative phylogenetic studies. By combining original data with published literature reports, we assembled data on hand preferences for standardized object manipulation in 1786 individuals from 38 species of anthropoid primates, including monkeys, apes, and humans. Based on that, we employ quantitative phylogenetic methods to test prevalent hypotheses on the roles of ecology, brain size, and tool use in primate handedness evolution. We confirm that human right-handedness represents an unparalleled extreme among anthropoids and found taxa displaying population-level handedness to be rare. Species-level direction of manual lateralization was largely uniform among non-human primates and did not strongly correlate with any of the selected biological predictors, nor with phylogeny. In contrast, we recovered highly variable patterns of hand preference strength, which show signatures of both ecology and phylogeny. In particular, terrestrial primates tend to display weaker hand preferences than arboreal species. These results challenge popular ideas on primate handedness evolution, including the postural origins hypothesis. Furthermore, they point to a potential adaptive benefit of disparate lateralization strength in primates, a measure of hand preference that has often been overlooked in the past. Finally, our data show that human lateralization patterns do not align with trends found among other anthropoids, suggesting that unique selective pressures gave rise to the unusual hand preferences of our species. Explanation: hands are more study is this as function) Hand tools by used ability known how these same arm / when using it may or functional asymmetry between development left motor skills task different body knowledge A (1 complex observed people abilities develop their also ape us arms skill learning novel behavior analysis work groups evolved mechanisms can approach similar man's art Hanfinger dexterable thumb opal fingers system yet animals common such research evidence et model differences functions were previously shown method specific limbs' Humans nature new ways understanding many degree developed handed performance
Williams Beuren syndrome (WBS) is a rare genetic multisystemic disorder characterized by mild-to-moderate intellectual disability and hypersocial phenotype, while the most life-threatening features are cardiovascular abnormalities. Nowadays, there are no pharmacological treatments to directly ameliorate the main traits of WBS. The endocannabinoid system (ECS), given its relevance for both cognitive and cardiovascular function, could be a potential druggable target in this syndrome. We analyzed the components of the ECS in the complete deletion (CD) mouse model of WBS and assessed the impact of its pharmacological modulation in key phenotypes relevant for WBS. CD mice showed the characteristic hypersociable phenotype with no preference for social novelty and poor short-term object-recognition performance. Brain cannabinoid type-1 receptor (CB1R) in CD male mice showed alterations in density and coupling with no detectable change in main endocannabinoids. Endocannabinoid signaling modulation with subchronic (10 days) JZL184, a selective inhibitor of monoacylglycerol lipase, specifically normalized the social and cognitive phenotype of CD mice. Notably, JZL184 treatment improved cardiovascular function and restored gene expression patterns in cardiac tissue. These results reveal the modulation of the ECS as a promising novel therapeutic approach to improve key phenotypic alterations in WBS. Explanation: that brain CB1 receptors we have an animal models anxiety / human disease effects on role blood levels cannabis use behavior related studies altered drug response genes may used drugs effect these animals cognition also patients symptoms but not known humans from our experimental data has important mental health disorders associated CB 2 major risk factors increased people's clinical study found their such affect behaviors changes can been previously shown which behavioral more severe anxious or affected body chronic stress exposure A new psychoactive cannabinoids treated rats behaviour when present high cholesterol food obesity Chow well subjects diet
During development, the growing organism transits through a series of temporally regulated morphological stages to generate the adult form. In humans, for example, development progresses from childhood through to puberty and then to adulthood, when sexual maturity is attained. Similarly, in holometabolous insects, immature juveniles transit to the adult form through an intermediate pupal stage when larval tissues are eliminated and the imaginal progenitor cells form the adult structures. The identity of the larval, pupal, and adult stages depends on the sequential expression of the transcription factors chinmo, Br-C, and E93. However, how these transcription factors determine temporal identity in developing tissues is poorly understood. Here, we report on the role of the larval specifier chinmo in larval and adult progenitor cells during fly development. Interestingly, chinmo promotes growth in larval and imaginal tissues in a Br-C-independent and -dependent manner, respectively. In addition, we found that the absence of chinmo during metamorphosis is critical for proper adult differentiation. Importantly, we also provide evidence that, in contrast to the well-known role of chinmo as a pro-oncogene, Br-C and E93 act as tumour suppressors. Finally, we reveal that the function of chinmo as a juvenile specifier is conserved in hemimetabolous insects as its homolog has a similar role in Blatella germanica. Taken together, our results suggest that the sequential expression of the transcription factors Chinmo, Br-C and E93 during larva, pupa an adult respectively, coordinate the formation of the different organs that constitute the adult organism. Explanation: gene regulatory genes cell fate developmental by) sex this can be with We regulation bet al Drosophila male (y Sex flies genetic mechanisms control metamorphs adults tissue morphogenesis process their normal molecular functions have important at transcriptional levels proteins may or not previously identified other studies model insect ecdysone pueDNA activity specific signaling pathways regulators such A / -essential many common mechanism use key roles wybody morphogenetic protein 1 larvae lethal X molt it required oinThis new wing organ system into same eyes Y was2 early life
Cycling of co-substrates, whereby a metabolite is converted among alternate forms via different reactions, is ubiquitous in metabolism. Several cycled co-substrates are well known as energy and electron carriers (e. g. ATP and NAD (P) H), but there are also other metabolites that act as cycled co-substrates in different parts of central metabolism. Here, we develop a mathematical framework to analyse the effect of co-substrate cycling on metabolic flux. In the cases of a single reaction and linear pathways, we find that co-substrate cycling imposes an additional flux limit on a reaction, distinct to the limit imposed by the kinetics of the primary enzyme catalysing that reaction. Using analytical methods, we show that this additional limit is a function of the total pool size and turnover rate of the cycled co-substrate. Expanding from this insight and using simulations, we show that regulation of these two parameters can allow regulation of flux dynamics in branched and coupled pathways. To support these theoretical insights, we analysed existing flux measurements and enzyme levels from the central carbon metabolism and identified several reactions that could be limited by the dynamics of co-substrate cycling. We discuss how the limitations imposed by co-substrate cycling provide experimentally testable hypotheses on specific metabolic phenotypes. We conclude that measuring and controlling co-substrate dynamics is crucial for understanding and engineering metabolic fluxes in cells. Explanation: enzymes coupling intracellular pathway systems with cycle activity cellular model cell production capacity one control mechanism complex regulatory network have more or system ability it may not previously studies which glucose anarole at results fuels metabolc The used key intermediates stoichiometry synthesis rates cycles many growth conditions when required changes expression / s response such et 1 important molecules cyclic organisms process their activities were mechanisms transport across networks predicted new genes products use same found all our data analysis work unknown factors under study thus linking information flow even phosphorylation state regulate proteins activation each they complexes
The origin and differentiation mechanism of articular chondrocytes remain poorly understood. Broadly, the difference in developmental mechanisms of articular and growth-plate cartilage is still less elucidated. Here, we identified that the nuclear factor of activated T-cells cytoplasmic 1 (NFATc1) is a crucial regulator of articular, but not growth-plate, chondrocyte differentiation during development. At the early stage of mouse knee development (embryonic day 13. 5), NFATc1-expressing cells were mainly located in the flanking region of the joint interzone. With development, NFATc1-expressing cells generated almost all articular chondrocytes but not chondrocytes in limb growth-plate primordium. NFATc1-expressing cells displayed prominent capacities for colony formation and multipotent differentiation. Transcriptome analyses revealed a set of characteristic genes in NFATc1-enriched articular cartilage progenitors. Strikingly, the expression of NFATc1 was diminished with articular chondrocyte differentiation, and suppressing NFATc1 expression in articular cartilage progenitors was sufficient to induce spontaneous chondrogenesis while overexpressing NFATc1 suppresses chondrogenesis. Mechanistically, NFATc1 negatively regulated the transcriptional activity of the Col2a1 gene. Thus, our results reveal that NFATc1 characterizes articular, but not growth-plate, cartilage progenitors during development and negatively determines articular chondrocyte differentiation at least partly through regulating COL2A1 gene transcription. Explanation: bone hypertrophic cell hypertrophy hip joints are by this on which ankal Nost osteoarthritis OA disease may function as an have factors normal femoral nucleus it also develop from In regulation Hip developing more than these same adult skeletal can be critical future studies We found activation new signaling pathway et control Ankskeleton different regulatory Isuch when arthritis inflammation IL 2 important role inhibition or -inhibitory effects previously known Osteoarthritis NFi inflammatory synovial associated changes SOXtheir now work has study further both osteos subchondral trabecular osteoblasts marrow signal pathways inhibitor how increased
Photosystem II (PSII) uses the energy from red light to split water and reduce quinone, an energy-demanding process based on chlorophyll a (Chl-a) photochemistry. Two types of cyanobacterial PSII can use chlorophyll d (Chl-d) and chlorophyll f (Chl-f) to perform the same reactions using lower energy, far-red light. PSII from Acaryochloris marina has Chl-d replacing all but one of its 35 Chl-a, while PSII from Chroococcidiopsis thermalis, a facultative far-red species, has just 4 Chl-f and 1 Chl-d and 30 Chl-a. From bioenergetic considerations, the far-red PSII were predicted to lose photochemical efficiency and / or resilience to photodamage. Here, we compare enzyme turnover efficiency, forward electron transfer, back-reactions and photodamage in Chl-f-PSII, Chl-d-PSII, and Chl-a-PSII. We show that: (i) all types of PSII have a comparable efficiency in enzyme turnover; (ii) the modified energy gaps on the acceptor side of Chl-d-PSII favour recombination via PD1 + Phe- repopulation, leading to increased singlet oxygen production and greater sensitivity to high-light damage compared to Chl-a-PSII and Chl-f-PSII; (iii) the acceptor-side energy gaps in Chl-f-PSII are tuned to avoid harmful back reactions, favouring resilience to photodamage over efficiency of light usage. The results are explained by the differences in the redox tuning of the electron transfer cofactors Phe and QA and in the number and layout of the chlorophylls that share the excitation energy with the primary electron donor. PSII has adapted to lower energy in two distinct ways, each appropriate for its specific environment but with different functional penalties. Explanation: D1 reaction pigment antenna pigments function more PS complexes photosystem antennas photosynthetic algae thylakoid protein structure also be important proteins complex psbother not yet their which blue green cells higher cyanobacteria photosynthesis active Dour electrons mechanism efficient at et this it may found new sites pheA non phF low Qb In FQ binding Fs where fluorescence quenching mechanisms power O2 flash rate very long dark state molecular pump activity funder photo harvesting system these control thylakg studies thus photons absorption exciting stroma fs Energy molecules how much spinach chloroplasts'
The skeletal system contains a series of sophisticated cellular lineages arising from the mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) that determine the homeostasis of bone and bone marrow. Here, we reasoned that osteocyte may exert a function in regulation of these lineage cell specifications and tissue homeostasis. Using a mouse model of conditional deletion of osteocytes by the expression of diphtheria toxin subunit α in dentin matrix protein 1 (DMP1) -positive osteocytes, we demonstrated that partial ablation of DMP1-positive osteocytes caused severe sarcopenia, osteoporosis, and degenerative kyphosis, leading to shorter lifespan in these animals. Osteocytes reduction altered mesenchymal lineage commitment, resulting in impairment of osteogenesis and induction of osteoclastogensis. Single-cell RNA sequencing further revealed that hematopoietic lineage was mobilized toward myeloid lineage differentiation with expanded myeloid progenitors, neutrophils, and monocytes, while the lymphopoiesis was impaired with reduced B cells in the osteocyte ablation mice. The acquisition of a senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in both osteogenic and myeloid lineage cells was the underlying cause. Together, we showed that osteocytes play critical roles in regulation of lineage cell specifications in bone and bone marrow through mediation of senescence. Explanation: loss is aging osteoblasts niche stromal for are this new age osteoblast progenitor have an inflammation signaling factors IL inflammatory macrophages osteoclast development their also increased old normal or more our studies which were as process control gene regulatory mechanisms role In response it important not changes aged specific cytokines production can be found ability et al We show effects on such essential Oat disease conditions has / s experimental models results adult trabecular osteopenia induced resident less osteoclasts apoptosis signals activation previously Bone remodeling bones' -data other when osteocalcin anabolic treatment osteoblastic activity local increase number
Organisms can adapt to an environment by taking multiple mutational paths. This redundancy at the genetic level, where many mutations have similar phenotypic and fitness effects, can make untangling the molecular mechanisms of complex adaptations difficult. Here, we use the Escherichia coli long-term evolution experiment (LTEE) as a model to address this challenge. To understand how different genomic changes could lead to parallel fitness gains, we characterize the landscape of transcriptional and translational changes across 12 replicate populations evolving in parallel for 50, 000 generations. By quantifying absolute changes in mRNA abundances, we show that not only do all evolved lines have more mRNAs but that this increase in mRNA abundance scales with cell size. We also find that despite few shared mutations at the genetic level, clones from replicate populations in the LTEE are remarkably similar in their gene expression patterns at both the transcriptional and translational levels. Furthermore, we show that the majority of the expression changes are due to changes at the transcriptional level with very few translational changes. Finally, we show how mutations in transcriptional regulators lead to consistent and parallel changes in the expression levels of downstream genes. These results deepen our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying complex adaptations and provide insights into the repeatability of evolution. Explanation: on these is protein response cells ability proteins adaptation genome variation selection population evolutionary new pathways evolve which adaptive mutation rate change organisms growth rates under be same or The bacteria evols phenotypes may it known factors such A studies mechanism specific important regulatory RNA transcription systems In responses genomes E mutants DNA has when they regulation eReach other than previously found common functional between one cellular processes bacterial survival strategies development time et system even strains increased capacity key biological information organism's well experimental data analysis methods used experiments models were novel study explain life
CD133 (prominin 1) is widely viewed as a cancer stem cell marker in association with drug resistance and cancer recurrence. Herein, we report that with impaired RTK-Shp2-Ras-Erk signaling, heterogenous hepatocytes form clusters that manage to divide during mouse liver regeneration. These hepatocytes are characterized by upregulated CD133 while negative for other progenitor cell markers. Pharmaceutical inhibition of proliferative signaling also induced CD133 expression in various cancer cell types from multiple animal species, suggesting an inherent and common mechanism of stress response. Super-resolution and electron microscopy localize CD133 on intracellular vesicles that apparently migrate between cells, which we name intercellsome. Isolated CD133 + intercellsomes are enriched with mRNAs rather than miRNAs. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals lower intracellular diversity (entropy) of mitogenic mRNAs in Shp2-deficient cells, which may be remedied by intercellular mRNA exchanges between CD133 + cells. CD133-deficient cells are more sensitive to proliferative signal inhibition in livers and intestinal organoids. These data suggest a mechanism of intercellular communication to compensate for intracellular signal deficit in various cell types. Explanation: the 2 this can function their The growth factors / s our proteins self regulation gene these were cellular model human cancers Stem Cells proliferation process normal or In new found tumor sphere size molecules have important role small molecular level two pathways such We results studies spheres large protein known mechanisms -disease stemness niche not genes shRNAs "how well it was critical group tumors high treatment patients blood levels therapeutic drugs use experimental models system different but therapy potential novel one has effects This study tissue under development methods increased survival time mice 5 hepatic CSCs
Ciliopathies manifest from sensory abnormalities to syndromic disorders with multi-organ pathologies, with retinal degeneration a highly penetrant phenotype. Photoreceptor cell death is a major cause of incurable blindness in retinal ciliopathies. To identify drug candidates to maintain photoreceptor survival, we performed an unbiased, high-throughput screening of over 6000 bioactive small molecules using retinal organoids differentiated from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) of rd16 mouse, which is a model of Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) type 10 caused by mutations in the cilia-centrosomal gene CEP290. We identified five non-toxic positive hits, including the lead molecule reserpine, which maintained photoreceptor development and survival in rd16 organoids. Reserpine also improved photoreceptors in retinal organoids derived from induced pluripotent stem cells of LCA10 patients and in rd16 mouse retina in vivo. Reserpine-treated patient organoids revealed modulation of signaling pathways related to cell survival / death, metabolism, and proteostasis. Further investigation uncovered dysregulation of autophagy associated with compromised primary cilium biogenesis in patient organoids and rd16 mouse retina. Reserpine partially restored the balance between autophagy and the ubiquitin-proteasome system at least in part by increasing the cargo adaptor p62, resulting in improved primary cilium assembly. Our study identifies effective drug candidates in preclinical studies of CEP290 retinal ciliopathies through cross-species drug discovery using iPSC-derived organoids, highlights the impact of proteostasis in the pathogenesis of ciliopathies, and provides new insights for treatments of retinal neurodegeneration. Explanation: disease protein that loss human ciliary proteins mutant rhodopsin rods eye diseases rescue screen compounds therapeutic potential drugs treatment opsin 1 RPE are genes expression our these as pathway can be cellular models gain function Rabs this genetic or more mutants Ropal processing lysosomal trafficking defective mice have Oother found previously known glaucoma eyes phenotypes compound opt2 novel vision not mechanism on therapies use their The light rod retinpigmentosa functional cone visual pigment cones therapeutics effects may develop targeted receptors large animal data CRISPR RNA et many critical role understanding molecular fly normal essential
While foraging for nectar and pollen, bees are exposed to a myriad of xenobiotics, including plant metabolites, which may exert a wide range of effects on their health. Although the bee genome encodes enzymes that help in the metabolism of xenobiotics, it has lower detoxification gene diversity than the genomes of other insects. Therefore, bees may rely on other components that shape their physiology, such as the microbiota, to degrade potentially toxic molecules. In this study, we show that amygdalin, a cyanogenic glycoside found in honey bee-pollinated almond trees, can be metabolized by both bees and members of the gut microbiota. In microbiota-deprived bees, amygdalin is degraded into prunasin, leading to prunasin accumulation in the midgut and hindgut. In microbiota-colonized bees, on the other hand, amygdalin is degraded even further, and prunasin does not accumulate in the gut, suggesting that the microbiota contribute to the full degradation of amygdalin into hydrogen cyanide. In vitro experiments demonstrated that amygdalin degradation by bee gut bacteria is strain-specific and not characteristic of a particular genus or species. We found strains of Bifidobacterium, Bombilactobacillus, and Gilliamella that can degrade amygdalin. The degradation mechanism appears to vary since only some strains produce prunasin as an intermediate. Finally, we investigated the basis of degradation in Bifidobacterium wkB204, a strain that fully degrades amygdalin. We found overexpression and secretion of several carbohydrate-degrading enzymes, including one in glycoside hydrolase family 3 (GH3). We expressed this GH3 in Escherichia coli and detected prunasin as a byproduct when cell lysates were cultured with amygdalin, supporting its contribution to amygdalin degradation. These findings demonstrate that both host and microbiota can act together to metabolize dietary plant metabolites. Explanation: food processing human diet from fruit metabolic pathway genes detoxinA more digestion enzyme activity bacterial also have digestive complex substrates pathways foods plants? studies compounds potential chemical wasB used these active microbes production bDNA high levels ingested fruits treatment ant diseases / model organisms ability they digest products occur cells could previously known mechanisms use As well our results diets beneficial but ingestion non functional same tissues exposure toxins natural produced chemicals 1 major role development associated disease how treated animals reduce important bloat process survival ants higher function after feeding treatments; -
Candida albicans causes severe invasive candidiasis. C. albicans infection requires the virulence factor candidalysin (CL) which damages target cell membranes. However, the mechanism that CL uses to permeabilize membranes is unclear. We reveal that CL forms membrane pores using a unique mechanism. Unexpectedly, CL readily assembled into polymers in solution. We propose that the basic structural unit in polymer formation is a CL oligomer, which is sequentially added into a string configuration that can close into a loop. CL loops appear to spontaneously insert into the membrane to become pores. A CL mutation (G4W) inhibited the formation of polymers in solution and prevented pore formation in synthetic lipid systems. Epithelial cell studies showed that G4W CL failed to activate the danger response pathway, a hallmark of the pathogenic effect of CL. These results indicate that CL polymerization in solution is a necessary step for the damage of cellular membranes. Analysis of CL pores by atomic force microscopy revealed co-existence of simple depressions and more complex pores, which are likely formed by CL assembled in an alternate oligomer orientation. We propose that this structural rearrangement represents a maturation mechanism that stabilizes pore formation to achieve more robust cellular damage. To summarize, CL uses a previously unknown mechanism to damage membranes, whereby pre-assembly of CL loops in solution leads to formation of membrane pores. Our investigation not only unravels a new paradigm for the formation of membrane pores, but additionally identifies CL polymerization as a novel therapeutic target to treat candidiasis. Explanation: model CLs we cells host disease critical protein structure proteins with fungal killing mechanisms against drug resistance hyphae growth lethal yeast two or on our models IL lability from these antifungal drugs used fungi infections candiL 1 study also their The important role biofilm human CLone system have be found molecules Let it may development large / activity form other such essential data structures were key interactions molecular self many leading process how both factors lysis lipids binding site peptides 2 different species aoal function increased susceptibility bacteria associated diseases treatment they high kill
Tailoring interventions to patient subgroups can improve intervention outcomes for various conditions. However, it is unclear how much of this improvement is due to the pharmacological personalisation versus the non-specific effects of the contextual factors involved in the tailoring process, such as the therapeutic interaction. Here, we tested whether presenting a (placebo) analgesia machine as personalised would improve its effectiveness. We recruited 102 adults in two samples (N1 = 17, N2 = 85) to receive painful heat stimulations on their forearm. During half of the stimulations, a machine purportedly delivered an electric current to reduce their pain. The participants were either told that the machine was personalised to their genetics and physiology, or that it was effective in reducing pain generally. Participants told that the machine was personalised reported more relief in pain intensity than the control group in both the feasibility study (standardised β = − 0. 50 [1. 08, 0. 08]) and the pre-registered double-blind confirmatory study (β = − 0. 20 [0. 36, 0. 04]). We found similar effects on pain unpleasantness, and several personality traits moderated the results. We present some of the first evidence that framing a sham treatment as personalised increases its effectiveness. Our findings could potentially improve the methodology of precision medicine research and inform practice. This study was funded by the Social Science and Humanities Research Council (93188) and Genome Québec (95747). Explanation: people with health patients are treatments effect may use one trials' these studies self mind which have our brain mechanisms understanding human experimental Pain response from be used data subjects but not yet skin needles analgesic potential new clinical trial information about genetic knowledge when using individuals who has different types acupuncture stimulation methods they al needle's blood nerve needA well known therapies future experiments models et neural mechanism complex nervous system also provide real time between 2 sensory peripheral electrical spinal cord level differences In novel stimuli efficacy will same responses where high frequency / s
Shared lineage has diverse effects on patterns of neuronal connectivity. In mammalian cortex, excitatory sister neurons assemble into shared microcircuits. In Drosophila, in contrast, sister neurons with different levels of Notch expression (NotchON / NotchOFF) develop distinct identities and diverge into separate circuits. Notch-differentiated sister neurons have been observed in vertebrate spinal cord and cerebellum, but whether they integrate into shared or distinct circuits remains unknown. Here, we evaluate how sister V2a (NotchOFF) / V2b (NotchON) neurons in the zebrafish integrate into spinal circuits. Using an in vivo labeling approach, we identified pairs of sister V2a / b neurons born from individual Vsx1 + progenitors and observed that they have somata in close proximity to each other and similar axonal trajectories. However, paired whole-cell electrophysiology and optogenetics revealed that sister V2a / b neurons receive input from distinct presynaptic sources, do not communicate with each other, and connect to largely distinct targets. These results resemble the divergent connectivity in Drosophila and represent the first evidence of Notch-differentiated circuit integration in a vertebrate system. Explanation: cells brain synaptic this neural stem for function by are network inhibitory interneurons known signaling pathways activity their axon synapses between development is neuron these same genes may et at which as previously our studies data mouse cerebellar model genetic required Nwit 2 axons connections wiring pattern nervous networks pathway information new found gene such We can be developing novel mechanisms use specific developmental The more mice hindbrain circuitry; neuro1 functional role were form two key interactions molecular signals inhibition normal important process one study all together during both Scommissural interhere sensory nerve growth
Healthy neuronal networks rely on homeostatic plasticity to maintain stable firing rates despite changing synaptic drive. These mechanisms, however, can themselves be destabilizing if activated inappropriately or excessively. For example, prolonged activity deprivation can lead to rebound hyperactivity and seizures. While many forms of homeostasis have been described, whether and how the magnitude of homeostatic plasticity is constrained remains unknown. Here, we uncover negative regulation of cortical network homeostasis by the PARbZIP family of transcription factors. In cortical slice cultures made from knockout mice lacking all three of these factors, the network response to prolonged activity withdrawal measured with calcium imaging is much stronger, while baseline activity is unchanged. Whole-cell recordings reveal an exaggerated increase in the frequency of miniature excitatory synaptic currents reflecting enhanced upregulation of recurrent excitatory synaptic transmission. Genetic analyses reveal that two of the factors, Hlf and Tef, are critical for constraining plasticity and for preventing life-threatening seizures. These data indicate that transcriptional activation is not only required for many forms of homeostatic plasticity but is also involved in restraint of the response to activity deprivation. Explanation: a neurons brain this) expression levels cells model system et al (as mechanism normal hippocampal long circuit function after which may gene regulatory protein 1 inhibitory synapses development time control their inhibition tat more such We previously known circuits between our ability changes induced new learning dependent epilepsy models show when it could number human epileptic patients hippocampus eThe disease they regulated signaling pathways genes out found abnormal GABA neuron loss chronic epilepts / de role different genetic studies during has increased functional connectivity glutamate NMDA receptor NMDAR large glutamatergic N molecular important novel acute
The tips of the developing respiratory buds are home to important progenitor cells marked by the expression of SOX9 and ID2. Early in embryonic development (prior to E13. 5), SOX9 + progenitors are multipotent, generating both airway and alveolar epithelium, but are selective progenitors of alveolar epithelial cells later in development. Transcription factors, including Sox9, Etv5, Irx, Mycn, and Foxp1 / 2 interact in complex gene regulatory networks to control proliferation and differentiation of SOX9 + progenitors. Molecular mechanisms by which these transcription factors and other signaling pathways control chromatin state to establish and maintain cell-type identity are not well-defined. Herein, we analyze paired gene expression (RNA-Seq) and chromatin accessibility (ATAC-Seq) data from SOX9 + epithelial progenitor cells (EPCs) during embryonic development in Mus musculus. Widespread changes in chromatin accessibility were observed between E11. 5 and E16. 5, particularly at distal cis-regulatory elements (e. g. enhancers). Gene regulatory network (GRN) inference identified a common SOX9 + progenitor GRN, implicating phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling in the developmental regulation of SOX9 + progenitor cells. Consistent with this model, conditional ablation of PI3K signaling in the developing lung epithelium in mouse resulted in an expansion of the SOX9 + EPC population and impaired airway epithelial cell differentiation. These data demonstrate that PI3K signaling is required for epithelial patterning during lung organogenesis, and emphasize the combinatorial power of paired RNA and ATAC seq in defining regulatory networks in development. Explanation: genes SOX2 stem lineage fate specification enhancer DNA binding transcriptional activation genetic function specific promoter can be pathway FOXES more critical early endoderm derived tissue our studies mice ESC growth factor 1 We et found human lungs develop their results adult pulmonary endothelial key functional previously known as induced pluripotent Stem niche Ymany similar have study on essential bone marrow mesenchymal stromal one may Show cancer stemness self hematopoietic precursor survival signals Wnt target non expressed Lung normal or disease ESCs potential tissues new regulators also such loss esophageal EC high ETS associated cellular mechanism p63 positive
Working memory (WM) is one of the most affected cognitive domains in multiple sclerosis (MS), which is mainly studied by the previously established binary model for information storage (slot model). However, recent observations based on the continuous reproduction paradigms have shown that assuming dynamic allocation of WM resources (resource model) instead of the binary hypothesis will give more accurate predictions in WM assessment. Moreover, continuous reproduction paradigms allow for assessing the distribution of error in recalling information, providing new insights into the organization of the WM system. Hence, by utilizing two continuous reproduction paradigms, memory-guided localization (MGL) and analog recall task with sequential presentation, we investigated WM dysfunction in MS. Our results demonstrated an overall increase in recall error and decreased recall precision in MS. While sequential paradigms were better in distinguishing healthy control from relapsing-remitting MS, MGL were more accurate in discriminating MS subtypes (relapsing-remitting from secondary progressive), providing evidence about the underlying mechanisms of WM deficit in progressive states of the disease. Furthermore, computational modeling of the results from the sequential paradigm determined that imprecision in decoding information and swap error (mistakenly reporting the feature of other presented items) was responsible for WM dysfunction in MS. Overall, this study offered a sensitive measure for assessing WM deficit and provided new insight into the organization of the WM system in MS population. Explanation: to performance data are ability brain damage patients working models accuracy capacity knowledge human can be people able but not function as process normal subjects impaired these processes our use their We has deficits impairment also processing systems cognition mThe when they how neural encoding / or mind time humans role cells activity specific tasks understanding complex 1 studies using work related functional imaging whole rewit mechanism In experimental spatial visual short critical regions lesions effects may well known different between important learning strategies disorder impairments such A long been lesion sites damaged while participants worse than
Nociception is a neural process that animals have developed to avoid potentially tissue-damaging stimuli. While nociception is triggered in the peripheral nervous system, its modulation by the central nervous system is a critical process in mammals, whose dysfunction has been extensively implicated in chronic pain pathogenesis. The peripheral mechanisms of nociception are largely conserved across the animal kingdom. However, it is unclear whether the brain-mediated modulation is also conserved in non-mammalian species. Here, we show that Drosophila has a descending inhibitory mechanism of nociception from the brain, mediated by the neuropeptide Drosulfakinin (DSK), a homolog of cholecystokinin (CCK) that plays an important role in the descending control of nociception in mammals. We found that mutants lacking dsk or its receptors are hypersensitive to noxious heat. Through a combination of genetic, behavioral, histological, and Ca2 + imaging analyses, we subsequently revealed neurons involved in DSK-mediated nociceptive regulation at a single-cell resolution and identified a DSKergic descending neuronal pathway that inhibits nociception. This study provides the first evidence for a descending modulatory mechanism of nociception from the brain in a non-mammalian species that is mediated by the evolutionarily conserved CCK system, raising the possibility that the descending inhibition is an ancient mechanism to regulate nociception. Explanation: nocicopioid peptides signaling pathways activation C sensory nerve cells opioids receptor on this nocPain sensation with endogenous K mice orphans function spinal antinociceptive effects may be as processing painful information these known studies their our activity specific c al signal transduction into A / s neuroses acute but not different between systems analgesia morphine antinociception response can et development they analgesic human 1 neuron's which when used model more than previously shown how similar results suggest novel signalling molecules expression levels one other peptide ligand active same circuits signals such In vivo experimental models using
Plants often generate secondary metabolites as defense mechanisms against parasites. Although some fungi may potentially overcome the barrier presented by antimicrobial compounds, only a limited number of examples and molecular mechanisms of resistance have been reported. Here, we found an Aglaia plant-parasitizing fungus that overcomes the toxicity of rocaglates, which are translation inhibitors synthesized by the plant, through an amino acid substitution in a eukaryotic translation initiation factor (eIF). De novo transcriptome assembly revealed that the fungus belongs to the Ophiocordyceps genus and that its eIF4A, a molecular target of rocaglates, harbors an amino acid substitution critical for rocaglate binding. Ribosome profiling harnessing a cucumber-infecting fungus, Colletotrichum orbiculare, demonstrated that the translational inhibitory effects of rocaglates were largely attenuated by the mutation found in the Aglaia parasite. The engineered C. orbiculare showed a survival advantage on cucumber plants with rocaglates. Our study exemplifies a plant fungus tug-of-war centered on secondary metabolites produced by host plants. Explanation: infection disease resistant gene expression is proteins A genes this fungal growth inhibition function cell production used RNA virus hosts cells infected pathogen response protein their these can be development Ravor from As antiparasitic species other also anti virulence factors In mechanism it immune signaling pathways pathogenesis related such diseases use known many more our studies has We previously conserved molecules rap / s parasitism specific small arab1 not yet identified cellular components infections yeast rapamycin kinase activity phosphorylation inhibitor targets complex 2 novel antifungal susceptibility Aspergillus fumigatus pathogenic oamet metabolic pathway two different
Psychophysical methods are a cornerstone of psychology, cognitive science, and neuroscience where they have been used to quantify behavior and its neural correlates for a vast range of mental phenomena. Their power derives from the combination of controlled experiments and rigorous analysis through signal detection theory. Unfortunately, they require many tedious trials and preferably highly trained participants. A recently developed approach, continuous psychophysics, promises to transform the field by abandoning the rigid trial structure involving binary responses and replacing it with continuous behavioral adjustments to dynamic stimuli. However, what has precluded wide adoption of this approach is that current analysis methods do not account for the additional variability introduced by the motor component of the task and therefore recover perceptual thresholds that are larger compared to equivalent traditional psychophysical experiments. Here, we introduce a computational analysis framework for continuous psychophysics based on Bayesian inverse optimal control. We show via simulations and previously published data that this not only recovers the perceptual thresholds but additionally estimates subjects action variability, internal behavioral costs, and subjective beliefs about the experimental stimulus dynamics. Taken together, we provide further evidence for the importance of including acting uncertainties, subjective beliefs, and, crucially, the intrinsic costs of behavior, even in experiments seemingly only investigating perception. Explanation: human brain-model our ability can be as mechanisms an humans) models how these results (people visual sensory neurons response time when information processing their observed system unknown which more complex understanding The known process inference systems knowledge use / capacity 1 or at study found cells activity neuronal circuits mechanism may also such questions one explain functional vision processes function signals activation level cortical regions network et different between cognition able abilities studies using higher nervous then sensation conscious mind state consciousness levels reported performance In cortex fMRI neurophysiology findings high rate hypothesis body cell
Models based on normative principles have played a major role in our understanding of how the brain forms decisions. However, these models have typically been derived for simple, stable conditions, and their relevance to decisions formed under more naturalistic, dynamic conditions is unclear. We previously derived a normative decision model in which evidence accumulation is adapted to fluctuations in the evidence-generating process that occur during a single decision (Glaze et al., 2015), but the evolution of commitment rules (e. g. thresholds on the accumulated evidence) under dynamic conditions is not fully understood. Here, we derive a normative model for decisions based on changing contexts, which we define as changes in evidence quality or reward, over the course of a single decision. In these cases, performance (reward rate) is maximized using decision thresholds that respond to and even anticipate these changes, in contrast to the static thresholds used in many decision models. We show that these adaptive thresholds exhibit several distinct temporal motifs that depend on the specific predicted and experienced context changes and that adaptive models perform robustly even when implemented imperfectly (noisily). We further show that decision models with adaptive thresholds outperform those with constant or urgency-gated thresholds in accounting for human response times on a task with time-varying evidence quality and average reward. These results further link normative and neural decision-making while expanding our view of both as dynamic, adaptive processes that update and use expectations to govern both deliberation and commitment. Explanation: are this people capacity ability they cognitive system mechanisms by information about can be value learning from knowledge subjects data level behavior dynamics also humans neurons activity patterns an effects different responses such valuation related network activation levels may drive behaviors cells firing rates at population predict future uncertain stimuli rewards / choice what rats self it known systems well animals go make predictions novel higher values like The one important differences between same risky choices risk? studies cognition then high sensitivity critical state properties found behavioral outcomes were mechanism complex similar computations normal brains networks large subject 1
Despite efforts from scientists and regulators, biodiversity is declining at an alarming rate. Unless we find transformative solutions to preserve biodiversity, future generations may not be able to enjoy nature s services. We have developed a conceptual framework that establishes the links between biodiversity dynamics and abiotic change through time and space using artificial intelligence. Here, we apply this framework to a freshwater ecosystem with a known history of human impact and study 100 years of community-level biodiversity, climate change and chemical pollution trends. We apply explainable network models with multimodal learning to community-level functional biodiversity measured with multilocus metabarcoding, to establish correlations with biocides and climate change records. We observed that the freshwater community assemblage and functionality changed over time without returning to its original state, even if the lake partially recovered in recent times. Insecticides and fungicides, combined with extreme temperature events and precipitation, explained up to 90% of the functional biodiversity changes. The community-level biodiversity approach used here reliably explained freshwater ecosystem shifts. These shifts were not observed when using traditional quality indices (e. g. Trophic Diatom Index). Our study advocates the use of high-throughput systemic approaches on long-term trends over species-focused ecological surveys to identify the environmental factors that cause loss of biodiversity and disrupt ecosystem functions. Explanation: water management for conservation are ecosystems system knowledge data resources information can our trophic communities systems global food fish health monitoring results it studies aquatic organisms response also these control their as process natural waters bodies environment sustainable development strategies landscape managers potential more important river restoration impacts biological processes by capacity understanding resource assessment biota recovery habitats such well model has current methods biotic responses provide us research how many sites i lakes spatial patterns temporal new inreuses land yet could manage thus which now interventions effective landscapes habitat? In stream fishes life science tools show
When interacting with the dynamic world, the brain receives outdated sensory information, due to the time required for neural transmission and processing. In motion perception, the brain may overcome these fundamental delays through predictively encoding the position of moving objects using information from their past trajectories. In the present study, we evaluated this proposition using multivariate analysis of high temporal resolution electroencephalographic data. We tracked neural position representations of moving objects at different stages of visual processing, relative to the real-time position of the object. During early stimulus-evoked activity, position representations of moving objects were activated substantially earlier than the equivalent activity evoked by unpredictable flashes, aligning the earliest representations of moving stimuli with their real-time positions. These findings indicate that the predictability of straight trajectories enables full compensation for the neural delays accumulated early in stimulus processing, but that delays still accumulate across later stages of cortical processing. Explanation: a our is on as an are more neurons signals can be human movement onwhen model system) The not only current spatial frequency (models how many have processes which also known results task performance subjects ability humans able cells firing rate response speed vision related neuronal responses timing 1 s action potential dynamics changes during process it's movements direction or even similar behavior people et number one could mechanisms complex systems where such patterns activation source velocity signal has cell body motions specific properties structure use network functional areas active regions cortex activities show function they
One signature of the human brain is its ability to derive knowledge from language inputs, in addition to nonlinguistic sensory channels such as vision and touch. How does human language experience modulate the mechanism by which semantic knowledge is stored in the human brain? We investigated this question using a unique human model with varying amounts and qualities of early language exposure: early deaf adults who were born to hearing parents and had reduced early exposure and delayed acquisition of any natural human language (speech or sign), with early deaf adults who acquired sign language from birth as the control group that matches on nonlinguistic sensory experiences. Neural responses in a semantic judgment task with 90 written words that were familiar to both groups were measured using fMRI. The deaf group with reduced early language exposure, compared with the deaf control group, showed reduced semantic sensitivity, in both multivariate pattern (semantic structure encoding) and univariate (abstractness effect) analyses, in the left dorsal anterior temporal lobe (dATL). These results provide positive, causal evidence that language experience drives the neural semantic representation in the dATL, highlighting the roles of language in forming human neural semantic structures beyond nonverbal sensory experiences. Explanation: we-our visual input processing for information are not but also have learning new people use their development an how these languages network different representations system 1 / when children auditory modality specific more than known data humans can sound other form non it novel found similar models understanding what has learned about same number word reading comprehension study at two forms meaning lexicus processes may be used systems develop into normal spoken English vocabulary large capacity key role they do one important yet there cortical areas activation patterns between studied adult's only access all those
Replay, the sequential reactivation within a neuronal ensemble, is a central hippocampal mechanism postulated to drive memory processing. While both rate and place representations are used by hippocampal place cells to encode behavioral episodes, replay has been largely defined by only the latter based on the fidelity of sequential activity across neighboring place fields. Here, we show that dorsal CA1 place cells in rats can modulate their firing rate between replay events of two different contexts. This experience-dependent phenomenon mirrors the same pattern of rate modulation observed during behavior and can be used independently from place information within replay sequences to discriminate between contexts. Our results reveal the existence of two complementary neural representations available for memory processes. Explanation: hippocampus spatial this brain network temporal patterns neurons time) data with which as these have our model cell ensembles use how may also known theta frequency specific memories system (not but when behaviors associated learning new experiences at rat Hippocampus more such an important role it were mechanisms found similar models properties encoding into process novel episodic long period after function Hippocampal synaptic plasticity recurrent CA3 networks dynamics changes related here study using previously structure where could cognitive / s well knowledge about We ability complex formation predicted future or systems potential interactions The key regions activation
Impaired spermatogenesis and male infertility are common manifestations associated with mitochondrial diseases, yet the underlying mechanisms linking these conditions remain elusive. In this study, we demonstrate that mice deficient for the mitochondrial intra-membrane rhomboid protease PARL, a recently reported model of the mitochondrial encephalopathy Leigh syndrome, develop early testicular atrophy caused by a complete arrest of spermatogenesis during meiotic prophase I, followed by degeneration and death of arrested spermatocytes. This process is independent of neurodegeneration. Interestingly, genetic modifications of PINK1, PGAM5, and TTC19 three major substrates of PARL with important roles in mitochondrial homeostasis fail to reproduce or modify this severe phenotype, indicating that the spermatogenic arrest arises from distinct molecular pathways. We further observed severe abnormalities in mitochondrial ultrastructure in PARL-deficient spermatocytes, along with prominent electron transfer chain defects, disrupted coenzyme Q (CoQ) biosynthesis, and metabolic rewiring. These mitochondrial defects are associated with a germ cell-specific decrease in GPX4 expression leading arrested spermatocytes to ferroptosis a regulated cell death modality characterized by uncontrolled lipid peroxidation. Our results suggest that mitochondrial defects induced by PARL depletion act as an initiating trigger for ferroptosis in primary spermatocytes through simultaneous effects on GPX4 and CoQ two major inhibitors of ferroptosis. These findings shed new light on the potential role of ferroptosis in the pathogenesis of mitochondrial diseases and male infertility warranting further investigation. Explanation: sperm cells oxidative damage mitochondria complex 1 protein loss apoptosis pathway human testes aging men spermatozoa nuclear DNA mutations may age related gene The mechanism proteins which increased X et cellular energy production ATP deficiency testis development lethal prostate cancer patients more disease our studies cause have found out function ejacYspery 2 critical factors involved their can fertility males somatic mtDNA damaged genes also be dysfunction it could abnormal levels decreased normal key such A / Y essential control over atquality affected previously high AR- 8% stage at defective condition has been causes impaired
Analogues of the hepatokine fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) are in clinical development for type 2 diabetes and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) treatment. Although their glucose-lowering and insulin-sensitizing effects have been largely unraveled, the mechanisms by which they alleviate liver injury have only been scarcely addressed. Here, we aimed to unveil the mechanisms underlying the protective effects of FGF21 on NASH using APOE * 3-Leiden. CETP mice, a well-established model for human-like metabolic diseases. Liver-specific FGF21 overexpression was achieved in mice, followed by administration of a high-fat high-cholesterol diet for 23 weeks. FGF21 prevented hepatic lipotoxicity, accompanied by activation of thermogenic tissues and attenuation of adipose tissue inflammation, improvement of hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia, and upregulation of hepatic programs involved in fatty acid oxidation and cholesterol removal. Furthermore, FGF21 inhibited hepatic inflammation, as evidenced by reduced Kupffer cell (KC) activation, diminished monocyte infiltration, and lowered accumulation of monocyte-derived macrophages. Moreover, FGF21 decreased lipid- and scar-associated macrophages, which correlated with less hepatic fibrosis as demonstrated by reduced collagen accumulation. Collectively, hepatic FGF21 overexpression limits hepatic lipotoxicity, inflammation, and fibrogenesis. Mechanistically, FGF21 blocks hepatic lipid influx and accumulation through combined endocrine and autocrine signaling, respectively, which prevents KC activation and lowers the presence of lipid- and scar-associated macrophages to inhibit fibrogenesis. Explanation: that anti obesity is livers steatosis disease models 1 lipids an increased blood levels body triglyceride metabolism this may be expression inflammatory IL receptors activated non function these -response gene factors can develop into studies mouse plasma lipoproteins clearance receptor not known but also treated our data has mechanism In vivo role or more circulating leptin related low level serum active protein novel therapeutic effect it could improve obese NAFLD patients lower activity beneficial treatments were antiliphow elevated fasting energy food induced lipoprotein secretion from animal study results developed experimental animals Lips We new bile pathway
The neurophysiology of cells and tissues are monitored electrophysiologically and optically in diverse experiments and species, ranging from flies to humans. Understanding the brain requires integration of data across this diversity, and thus these data must be findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable (FAIR). This requires a standard language for data and metadata that can coevolve with neuroscience. We describe design and implementation principles for a language for neurophysiology data. Our open-source software (Neurodata Without Borders, NWB) defines and modularizes the interdependent, yet separable, components of a data language. We demonstrate NWB s impact through unified description of neurophysiology data across diverse modalities and species. NWB exists in an ecosystem, which includes data management, analysis, visualization, and archive tools. Thus, the NWB data language enables reproduction, interchange, and reuse of diverse neurophysiology data. More broadly, the design principles of NWB are generally applicable to enhance discovery across biology through data FAIRness. Explanation: model we process is human neural network information system development methods use et models have our knowledge how well known as complex systems study results understanding by using work on ability not function experimental neurons cell types biological networks their such In processing large scale nervous electrical activity level functional connectivity between studies neuronal wiring structure has used modeling electrophysiology properties neuron 1 novel mechanisms but also wit may different behavior cellular signaling pathways communication important more than mechanism found many elements processes one specific nodes interactions they out form circuits all together or when key synaptic current signal
Infection with Influenza A virus (IAV) causes the well-known symptoms of the flu, including fever, loss of appetite, and excessive sleepiness. These responses, mediated by the brain, will normally disappear once the virus is cleared from the system, but a severe respiratory virus infection may cause long-lasting neurological disturbances. These include encephalitis lethargica and narcolepsy. The mechanisms behind such long lasting changes are unknown. The hypothalamus is a central regulator of the homeostatic response during a viral challenge. To gain insight into the neuronal and non-neuronal molecular changes during an IAV infection, we intranasally infected mice with an H1N1 virus and extracted the brain at different time points. Using single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) of the hypothalamus, we identify transcriptional effects in all identified cell populations. The snRNA-seq data showed the most pronounced transcriptional response at 3 days past infection, with a strong downregulation of genes across all cell types. General immune processes were mainly impacted in microglia, the brain resident immune cells, where we found increased numbers of cells expressing pro-inflammatory gene networks. In addition, we found that most neuronal cell populations downregulated genes contributing to the energy homeostasis in mitochondria and protein translation in the cytosol, indicating potential reduced cellular and neuronal activity. This might be a preventive mechanism in neuronal cells to avoid intracellular viral replication and attack by phagocytosing cells. The change of microglia gene activity suggest that this is complemented by a shift in microglia activity to provide increased surveillance of their surroundings. Explanation: host bacteria infections neurons inflammation macrophages for viruses specific these control sleep wake / influenza human disease associated IL 1 cytokines signaling pathways antiviral innate immunity activation as expression macrophage function bacterial pathogen activated previously our studies mouse model have more Ior infecting monocytes cytokine mRNA levels not after brains other on which also respond against type I IFN receptor clearance lung health ABSTRACT We new key role neuron production signals anti interferon related memory IL10 can healthy blood monocyte Toll receptors active they peripheral nervous systems when sickness animals work how treatment study critical ill people higher
Apicobasal cell polarity loss is a founding event in epithelial mesenchymal transition and epithelial tumorigenesis, yet how pathological polarity loss links to plasticity remains largely unknown. To understand the mechanisms and mediators regulating plasticity upon polarity loss, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing of Drosophila ovaries, where inducing polarity-gene l (2) gl-knockdown (Lgl-KD) causes invasive multilayering of the follicular epithelia. Analyzing the integrated Lgl-KD and wildtype transcriptomes, we discovered the cells specific to the various discernible phenotypes and characterized the underlying gene expression. A genetic requirement of Keap1-Nrf2 signaling in promoting multilayer formation of Lgl-KD cells was further identified. Ectopic expression of Keap1 increased the volume of delaminated follicle cells that showed enhanced invasive behavior with significant changes to the cytoskeleton. Overall, our findings describe the comprehensive transcriptome of cells within the follicle cell tumor model at the single-cell resolution and identify a previously unappreciated link between Keap1-Nrf2 signaling and cell plasticity at early tumorigenesis. Explanation: this ap genes are for cancer stem ovarian tissue function as an apor by which 1 proteins We The activation / can flies normal essential role et development their these required protein factors pathway regulation AP1 Wnt signal pathways may be induced cellular process adisease human cancers associated mutations non known mechanism such In response also have important fly studies on it results found work data show two different from other one more but not functional nuclear Itranscription ebwell EB1 This key wal molecular complex control functions during were tight fruit y regulatory E coli
Humans learn about the environment either directly by interacting with it or indirectly by seeking information about it from social sources such as conspecifics. The degree of confidence in the information obtained through either route should determine the impact that it has on adapting and changing behaviour. We examined whether and how behavioural and neural computations differ during non-social learning as opposed to learning from social sources. Trial-wise confidence judgements about non-social and social information sources offered a window into this learning process. Despite matching exactly the statistical features of social and non-social conditions, confidence judgements were more accurate and less changeable when they were made about social as opposed to non-social information sources. In addition to subjective reports of confidence, differences were also apparent in the Bayesian estimates of participants subjective beliefs. Univariate activity in dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and posterior temporoparietal junction more closely tracked confidence about social as opposed to non-social information sources. In addition, the multivariate patterns of activity in the same areas encoded identities of social information sources compared to non-social information sources. Explanation: people ability knowledge we cognitive for human brain mechanisms are our is humans can be their source but not known which individuals have an accuracy mind these mental health data subjects) model use decision making decisions complex inference processes self (understanding what one study results evidence based belief systems other uncertain cognition abilities unknown questions perception may well different models informs us capacity inferences using those found individual higher animals knows studies where while memory system 1 / This level functional regions processing network important role brains cortical neurons' responses at specific used task performance
Synaptic communication relies on the fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane, which leads to neurotransmitter release. This exocytosis is triggered by brief and local elevations of intracellular Ca2 + with remarkably high sensitivity. How this is molecularly achieved is unknown. While synaptotagmins confer the Ca2 + sensitivity of neurotransmitter exocytosis, biochemical measurements reported Ca2 + affinities too low to account for synaptic function. However, synaptotagmin s Ca2 + affinity increases upon binding the plasma membrane phospholipid PI (4, 5) P2 and, vice versa, Ca2 + binding increases synaptotagmin s PI (4, 5) P2 affinity, indicating a stabilization of the Ca2 + / PI (4, 5) P2 dual-bound state. Here, we devise a molecular exocytosis model based on this positive allosteric stabilization and the assumptions that (1.) synaptotagmin Ca2 + / PI (4, 5) P2 dual binding lowers the energy barrier for vesicle fusion and that (2.) the effect of multiple synaptotagmins on the energy barrier is additive. The model, which relies on biochemically measured Ca2 + / PI (4, 5) P2 affinities and protein copy numbers, reproduced the steep Ca2 + dependency of neurotransmitter release. Our results indicate that each synaptotagmin engaging in Ca2 + / PI (4, 5) P2 dual-binding lowers the energy barrier for vesicle fusion by ~ 5 kBT and that allosteric stabilization of this state enables the synchronized engagement of several (typically three) synaptotagmins for fast exocytosis. Furthermore, we show that mutations altering synaptotagmin s allosteric properties may show dominant-negative effects, even though synaptotagmins act independently on the energy barrier, and that dynamic changes of local PI (4, 5) P2 (e. g. upon vesicle movement) dramatically impact synaptic responses. We conclude that allosterically stabilized Ca2 + / PI (4, 5) P2 dual binding enables synaptotagmins to exert their coordinated function in neurotransmission. Explanation: proteins interactions are mechanism Ca? experiments calcium activation lipids at membranes lipid bilayer synapses signaling from process regulation bind molecules an information presynaptic voltage dependent neuronal activity more such as nerve cell models ability they can be regulated secretion into neurons these cells also mechanisms have previously knowledge how well known data our studies predicted new role or dynamics similar when critical time control signals pathway out complex two regulatory important network different signal pathways large not all synapse t regulate target brain plasticity associated receptors potential inhibition released glutamate transmitter releasable [et number stimulation first action
Sauropterygia was a taxonomically and ecomorphologically diverse clade of Mesozoic marine reptiles spanning the Early Triassic to the Late Cretaceous. Sauropterygians are traditionally divided into two groups representing two markedly different body plans the short-necked, durophagous Placodontia and the long-necked Eosauropterygia whereas Saurosphargidae, a small clade of armoured marine reptiles, is generally considered as the sauropterygian sister-group. However, the early evolutionary history of sauropterygians and their phylogenetic relationships with other groups within Diapsida are still incompletely understood. Here, we report a new saurosphargid from the Early Triassic (Olenekian) of South China Prosaurosphargis yingzishanensis gen. et sp. nov. representing the earliest known occurrence of the clade. An updated phylogenetic analysis focussing on the interrelationships among diapsid reptiles recovers saurosphargids as nested within sauropterygians, forming a clade with eosauropterygians to the exclusion of placodonts. Furthermore, a clade comprising Eusaurosphargis and Palatodonta is recovered as the sauropterygian sister-group within Sauropterygomorpha tax. nov. The phylogenetic position of several Early and Middle Triassic sauropterygians of previously uncertain phylogenetic affinity, such as Atopodentatus, Hanosaurus, Majiashanosaurus, and Corosaurus, is also clarified, elucidating the early evolutionary assembly of the sauropterygian body plan. Finally, our phylogenetic analysis supports the placement of Testudines and Archosauromorpha within Archelosauria, a result strongly corroborated by molecular data, but only recently recovered in a phylogenetic analysis using a morphology-only dataset. Our study provides evidence for the rapid diversification of sauropterygians in the aftermath of the Permo-Triassic mass extinction event and emphasises the importance of broad taxonomic sampling in reconstructing phylogenetic relationships among extinct taxa. Explanation: fosinsectspecies that not yet fossil may have an oinosthis were more than ancestral character evolution novel snakes diversity large repasosgenus inomlesnungwasA all turtles phylogeny ancient origin lizards families complex evolved birds lineage including snake genera clades most likely these found lizard has similar results tree shrewing taxonomy many well trees studies can be used DNA high roy genes date ancestor's which studied lineages ant / family owl owprey orb they derived stem time I major vesopharbone loss some
Smoking-associated DNA methylation levels identified through epigenome-wide association studies (EWASs) are generally ascribed to smoking-reactive mechanisms, but the contribution of a shared genetic predisposition to smoking and DNA methylation levels is typically not accounted for. We exploited a strong within-family design, that is, the discordant monozygotic twin design, to study reactiveness of DNA methylation in blood cells to smoking and reversibility of methylation patterns upon quitting smoking. Illumina HumanMethylation450 BeadChip data were available for 769 monozygotic twin pairs (mean age = 36 years, range = 18 78, 70% female), including pairs discordant or concordant for current or former smoking. In pairs discordant for current smoking, 13 differentially methylated CpGs were found between current smoking twins and their genetically identical co-twin who never smoked. Top sites include multiple CpGs in CACNA1D and GNG12, which encode subunits of a calcium voltage-gated channel and G protein, respectively. These proteins interact with the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, suggesting that methylation levels at these CpGs might be reactive to nicotine exposure. All 13 CpGs have been previously associated with smoking in unrelated individuals and data from monozygotic pairs discordant for former smoking indicated that methylation patterns are to a large extent reversible upon smoking cessation. We further showed that differences in smoking level exposure for monozygotic twins who are both current smokers but differ in the number of cigarettes they smoke are reflected in their DNA methylation profiles. In conclusion, by analysing data from monozygotic twins, we robustly demonstrate that DNA methylation level in human blood cells is reactive to cigarette smoking. We acknowledge funding from the National Institute on Drug Abuse grant DA049867, the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (NWO): Biobanking and Biomolecular Research Infrastructure (BBMRI-NL, NWO 184. 033. 111) and the BBRMI-NL-financed BIOS Consortium (NWO 184. 021. 007), NWO Large Scale infrastructures X-Omics (184. 034. 019), Genotype / phenotype database for behaviour genetic and genetic epidemiological studies (ZonMw Middelgroot 911-09-032); Netherlands Twin Registry Repository: researching the interplay between genome and environment (NWO-Groot 480-15-001 / 674); the Avera Institute, Sioux Falls (USA), and the National Institutes of Health (NIH R01 HD042157-01A1, MH081802, Grand Opportunity grants 1RC2 MH089951 and 1RC2 MH089995); epigenetic data were generated at the Human Genomics Facility (HuGe-F) at ErasmusMC Rotterdam. Cotinine assaying was sponsored by the Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam. DIB acknowledges the Royal Netherlands Academy of Science Professor Award (PAH / 6635). Explanation: gene expression tobacco effects disease risk genes 1 non cell lung cancer health related results can et al The causal mechanism linking one more novel genomic loci effect this susceptible common similar yet also our findings across many such an may A discovery biological linkage analysis has potential causative role variants known associations using important GWAS summary body evidence support future experimental research methods use factors present unique environmental exposures susceptibility relationship observed all cause significant other well as result understanding molecular changes specific diseases complex two key discoveries pathways involved target tissue addiction drug development high brain Nicotine dependence
The structure and function of the vertebrate retina have been extensively studied across species with an isolated, ex vivo preparation. Retinal function in vivo, however, remains elusive, especially in awake animals. Here, we performed single-unit extracellular recordings in the optic tract of head-fixed mice to compare the output of awake, anesthetized, and ex vivo retinas. While the visual response properties were overall similar across conditions, we found that awake retinal output had in general (1) faster kinetics with less variability in the response latencies; (2) a larger dynamic range; and (3) higher firing activity, by ~ 20 Hz on average, for both baseline and visually evoked responses. Our modeling analyses further showed that such awake response patterns convey comparable total information but less efficiently, and allow for a linear population decoder to perform significantly better than the anesthetized or ex vivo responses. These results highlight distinct retinal behavior in awake states, in particular suggesting that the retina employs dense coding in vivo, rather than sparse efficient coding as has been often assumed from ex vivo studies. Explanation: light cells neural data time vision system et eye more neurons are brain network model eyes ON temporal frequency stimuli is this how can be our functional use cell receptive field their s / We not yet processing signals show these also known mechanisms signal models driven current experiments using stimulus new optopunder stimulation activation retinoform activities spiking electrical circuit active neuron V1 ipcomplex spike rate dynamics changes respond when it circuits out recorded sensory cortex excitatory synaptic inputs A at which only one systems previously high contrast ganglion axons nerve fiber see ability many
Fixing cells with paraformaldehyde (PFA) is an essential step in numerous biological techniques as it is thought to preserve a snapshot of biomolecular transactions in living cells. Fixed-cell imaging techniques such as immunofluorescence have been widely used to detect liquid liquid phase separation (LLPS) in vivo. Here, we compared images, before and after fixation, of cells expressing intrinsically disordered proteins that are able to undergo LLPS. Surprisingly, we found that PFA fixation can both enhance and diminish putative LLPS behaviors. For specific proteins, fixation can even cause their droplet-like puncta to artificially appear in cells that do not have any detectable puncta in the live condition. Fixing cells in the presence of glycine, a molecule that modulates fixation rates, can reverse the fixation effect from enhancing to diminishing LLPS appearance. We further established a kinetic model of fixation in the context of dynamic protein protein interactions. Simulations based on the model suggest that protein localization in fixed cells depends on an intricate balance of protein protein interaction dynamics, the overall rate of fixation, and notably, the difference between fixation rates of different proteins. Consistent with simulations, live-cell single-molecule imaging experiments showed that a fast overall rate of fixation relative to protein protein interaction dynamics can minimize fixation artifacts. Our work reveals that PFA fixation changes the appearance of LLPS from living cells, presents a caveat in studying LLPS using fixation-based methods, and suggests a mechanism underlying the fixation artifact. Explanation: bacteria more fixability by for this may be new data analysis results many other studies when cellular structure or molecules structures how well known these F our molecular complex formation often The also important time but same membrane lipids droplets method et system previously shown which FAs study all mechanisms use high Fus / A has actin binding sites during process they membranes In some models fluorescence microscopy image processing large samples show were present key questions 1 novel information? This two antibodies inside function bacterial infection disease state critical pathways human intracellular signaling network regulation systems
Uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC) proliferate within superficial bladder umbrella cells to form intracellular bacterial communities (IBCs) during early stages of urinary tract infections. However, the dynamic responses of IBCs to host stresses and antibiotic therapy are difficult to assess in situ. We develop a human bladder-chip model wherein umbrella cells and bladder microvascular endothelial cells are co-cultured under flow in urine and nutritive media respectively, and bladder filling and voiding mimicked mechanically by application and release of linear strain. Using time-lapse microscopy, we show that rapid recruitment of neutrophils from the vascular channel to sites of infection leads to swarm and neutrophil extracellular trap formation but does not prevent IBC formation. Subsequently, we tracked bacterial growth dynamics in individual IBCs through two cycles of antibiotic administration interspersed with recovery periods which revealed that the elimination of bacteria within IBCs by the antibiotic was delayed, and in some instances, did not occur at all. During the recovery period, rapid proliferation in a significant fraction of IBCs reseeded new foci of infection through bacterial shedding and host cell exfoliation. These insights reinforce a dynamic role for IBCs as harbors of bacterial persistence, with significant consequences for non-compliance with antibiotic regimens. Explanation: disease inflammatory blood is inflammation response killing mechanisms an infected tissue damage or bacterium invasion into this can be more The on system our data studies have pathogen E factors Bpreviously treatment drug resistance strains survival ability it may antibiotics agents used clinical activity against these therapeutic effect A novel pathogens biofilm development In vivo experimental models study has how also results were found high levels chronic urcystitis severe renal epithelial tight health conditions associated acute kidney injury risk clearance / patients treated UTI pathogenesis mechanism increased urosepsis clinically use drugs strategies their anti IL cytokines secretion
Ammonium (NH4 +) is essential to generate the nitrogenous building blocks of life. It gets assimilated via the canonical biosynthetic routes to glutamate and is further distributed throughout metabolism via a network of transaminases. To study the flexibility of this network, we constructed an Escherichia coli glutamate auxotrophic strain. This strain allowed us to systematically study which amino acids serve as amine sources. We found that several amino acids complemented the auxotrophy either by producing glutamate via transamination reactions or by their conversion to glutamate. In this network, we identified aspartate transaminase AspC as a major connector between many amino acids and glutamate. Additionally, we extended the transaminase network by the amino acids β-alanine, alanine, glycine, and serine as new amine sources and identified d-amino acid dehydrogenase (DadA) as an intracellular amino acid sink removing substrates from transaminase reactions. Finally, ammonium assimilation routes producing aspartate or leucine were introduced. Our study reveals the high flexibility of the cellular amination network, both in terms of transaminase promiscuity and adaptability to new connections and ammonium entry points. Explanation: enzymes are metabolic anaL ammonia nitrogen source for glutamine synthesis pathways flux can be with cells ability bacteria growth on these enzyme activity use glutaminase reaction have more production NH not proteins also cell system it pathway may different other one important N metabolites addition The used GDH genes expression protein active specific activities bacterial strains studies how such our previously unknown function they provide potential novel mechanisms uptake / g glutamal regulation networks key mutations E find most common but could two systems well known regulatory each gene products control under when present results show all genetic
Reef-building corals thrive in oligotrophic environments due to their possession of endosymbiotic algae. Confined to the low pH interior of the symbiosome within the cell, the algal symbiont provides the coral host with photosynthetically fixed carbon. However, it remains unknown how carbon is released from the algal symbiont for uptake by the host. Here we show, using cultured symbiotic dinoflagellate, Breviolum sp., that decreases in pH directly accelerates the release of monosaccharides, that is, glucose and galactose, into the ambient environment. Under low pH conditions, the cell surface structures were deformed and genes related to cellulase were significantly upregulated in Breviolum. Importantly, the release of monosaccharides was suppressed by the cellulase inhibitor, glucopyranoside, linking the release of carbon to degradation of the agal cell wall. Our results suggest that the low pH signals the cellulase-mediated release of monosaccharides from the algal cell wall as an environmental response in coral reef ecosystems. Explanation: a bacteria cells are C (on this production extracellular enzymes active) The not only have these bacterial polysaccharides digestion / A new found high or more carbohydrates produced but also used symbionts metabolic energy conversion sugar sugars metabolism may be at infection fungal growth microbes associated organisms produce glycans degrading enzyme complex carbohydrate which can We microbial other than fungi biomass higher our symbiosis key polysaccharide synthesis hexose andigall infections studies has mutuus hosts ability they use microbe's G present important species algD glycan alginate 1 glucan ans health disease free its In
Nephronophthisis (NPHP) is a ciliopathy characterized by renal fibrosis and cyst formation, and accounts for a significant portion of end stage renal disease in children and young adults. Currently, no targeted therapy is available for this disease. INVS / NPHP2 is one of the over 25 NPHP genes identified to date. In mouse, global knockout of Invs leads to renal fibrosis and cysts. However, the precise contribution of different cell types and the relationship between epithelial cysts and interstitial fibrosis remains undefined. Here, we generated and characterized cell-type-specific knockout mouse models of Invs, investigated the impact of removing cilia genetically on phenotype severity in Invs mutants and evaluated the impact of the histone deacetylase inhibitor valproic acid (VPA) on Invs mutants. Epithelial-specific knockout of Invs in Invsflox / flox; Cdh16-Cre mutant mice resulted in renal cyst formation and severe stromal fibrosis, while Invsflox / flox; Foxd1-Cre mice, where Invs is deleted in stromal cells, displayed no observable phenotypes up to the young adult stage, highlighting a significant role of epithelial-stromal crosstalk. Further, increased cell proliferation and myofibroblast activation occurred early during disease progression and preceded detectable cyst formation in the Invsflox / flox; Cdh16-Cre kidney. Moreover, concomitant removal of cilia partially suppressed the phenotypes of the Invsflox / flox; Cdh16-Cre mutant kidney, supporting a significant interaction of cilia and Invs function in vivo. Finally, VPA reduced cyst burden, decreased cell proliferation and ameliorated kidney function decline in Invs mutant mice. Our results reveal the critical role of renal epithelial cilia in NPHP and suggest the possibility of repurposing VPA for NPHP treatment. Explanation: that gene expression are with development kidneys injury model 1 We PKD human fibrotic tissue loss cystic changes associated genetic studies The more than which have an experimental drug induced podocyte slit glomerular tuft dysplasia patients develop these can be new mechanism ADPKD similar our study found also important protein or not as well known mechanisms cause Ipolycystic fluid urine transforming growth factors TGF signaling pathways involved podocytes tubular epithelium from their normal cellular process it may diseases molecular complex effects other proteins mutations leading abnormal key such data how many common Pcysts affected non functional
The extinct Steller s sea cow (Hydrodamalis gigas; † 1768) was a whale-sized marine mammal that manifested profound morphological specializations to exploit the harsh coastal climate of the North Pacific. Yet despite first-hand accounts of their biology, little is known regarding the physiological adjustments underlying their evolution to this environment. Here, the adult-expressed hemoglobin (Hb; α2β / δ2) of this sirenian is shown to harbor a fixed amino acid replacement at an otherwise invariant position (β / δ82Lys → Asn) that alters multiple aspects of Hb function. First, our functional characterization of recombinant sirenian Hb proteins demonstrates that the Hb-O2 affinity of this sub-Arctic species was less affected by temperature than those of living (sub) tropical sea cows. This phenotype presumably safeguarded O2 delivery to cool peripheral tissues and largely arises from a reduced intrinsic temperature sensitivity of the H. gigas protein. Additional experiments on H. gigas β / δ82Asn → Lys mutant Hb further reveal this exchange renders Steller s sea cow Hb unresponsive to the potent intraerythrocytic allosteric effector 2, 3-diphosphoglycerate, a radical modification that is the first documented example of this phenotype among mammals. Notably, β / δ82Lys → Asn moreover underlies the secondary evolution of a reduced blood-O2 affinity phenotype that would have promoted heightened tissue and maternal / fetal O2 delivery. This conclusion is bolstered by analyses of two Steller s sea cow prenatal Hb proteins (Hb Gower I; ζ2ε2 and HbF; α2γ2) that suggest an exclusive embryonic stage expression pattern, and reveal uncommon replacements in H. gigas HbF (γ38Thr → Ile and γ101Glu → Asp) that increased Hb-O2 affinity relative to dugong HbF. Finally, the β / δ82Lys → Asn replacement of the adult / fetal protein is shown to increase protein solubility, which may have elevated red blood cell Hb content within both the adult and fetal circulations and contributed to meeting the elevated metabolic (thermoregulatory) requirements and fetal growth rates associated with this species cold adaptation. Explanation: human hemoglobinS oxygen capacity for life cells anemia severe hypoxia tolerance mechanisms Bwater fish high new we animals ability conditions more are can be found globin gene regulatory mutations effects A not changes important? studies haemoglobin structure these has similar but also novel Hana1 control humans erythrocytes sickling disease related glob genes were previously results In higher or during development they adults sickle anaemia health survival role different people study now molecular adaptive genetic tall years old sheep βchain binding site through Sbsuch critical ans mechanism cattle B yet
Expression of activated Ras, RasV12, provides Drosophila cultured cells with a proliferation and survival advantage that simplifies the generation of continuous cell lines. Here, we used lineage-restricted RasV12 expression to generate continuous cell lines of muscle, glial, and epithelial cell type. Additionally, cell lines with neuronal and hemocyte characteristics were isolated by cloning from cell cultures established with broad RasV12 expression. Differentiation with the hormone ecdysone caused maturation of cells from mesoderm lines into active muscle tissue and enhanced dendritic features in neuronal-like lines. Transcriptome analysis showed expression of key cell-type-specific genes and the expected alignment with single-cell sequencing and in situ data. Overall, the technique has produced in vitro cell models with characteristics of glia, epithelium, muscle, nerve, and hemocyte. The cells and associated data are available from the Drosophila Genomic Resource Center. Explanation: for gene function is development neurons growth factors this We tissues) In an can be developmental time somatic stem derived neural these studies on process model flies larval imagbrain nervous system (fly adult insect larvae develop our results have identified new genetic activity as well known signaling pathways activation transcription factor 1 proteins expressed which et al / or not previously found neuron differentiation processes during This work it may A regulatory mechanisms at different insects cellular response also other such required normal their control role wing RNA levels mRNA regulation protein show transcriptional effects developing pu
Multiciliated cells (MCCs) are terminally differentiated epithelia that assemble multiple motile cilia used to promote fluid flow. To template these cilia, MCCs dramatically expand their centriole content during a process known as centriole amplification. In cycling cells, the master regulator of centriole assembly Polo-like kinase 4 (PLK4) is essential for centriole duplication; however recent work has questioned the role of PLK4 in centriole assembly in MCCs. To address this discrepancy, we created genetically engineered mouse models and demonstrated that both PLK4 protein and kinase activity are critical for centriole amplification in MCCs. Tracheal epithelial cells that fail centriole amplification accumulate large assemblies of centriole proteins and do not undergo apical surface area expansion. These results show that the initial stages of centriole assembly are conserved between cycling cells and MCCs and suggest that centriole amplification and surface area expansion are coordinated events. Explanation: cell cycle microtubule microtubules required function by how new our We have an at complex A / s replication origin from C centrosome number regulation factors 1 The other centrosone or development mechanism it with key mitotic spindle pole growth control MCC fission yeast two important genes expression et mitosis division cycles many more studies human cancer mutations loss which on found normal cellular proliferation ccDNA S cyclin dependent Call be gene 2 different c small supernumerary chromosome copy numbers associated tumor mechanisms drive abnormal nuclear divide most can also called somatic mutation but high genetic such
The human endometrium experiences repetitive cycles of tissue wounding characterised by piecemeal shedding of the surface epithelium and rapid restoration of tissue homeostasis. In this study, we used a mouse model of endometrial repair and three transgenic lines of mice to investigate whether epithelial cells that become incorporated into the newly formed luminal epithelium have their origins in one or more of the mesenchymal cell types present in the stromal compartment of the endometrium. Using scRNAseq, we identified a novel population of PDGFRb + mesenchymal stromal cells that developed a unique transcriptomic signature in response to endometrial breakdown / repair. These cells expressed genes usually considered specific to epithelial cells and in silico trajectory analysis suggested they were stromal fibroblasts in transition to becoming epithelial cells. To confirm our hypothesis we used a lineage tracing strategy to compare the fate of stromal fibroblasts (PDGFRa +) and stromal perivascular cells (NG2 / CSPG4 +). We demonstrated that stromal fibroblasts can undergo a mesenchyme to epithelial transformation and become incorporated into the re-epithelialised luminal surface of the repaired tissue. This study is the first to discover a novel population of wound-responsive, plastic endometrial stromal fibroblasts that contribute to the rapid restoration of an intact luminal epithelium during endometrial repair. These findings form a platform for comparisons both to endometrial pathologies which involve a fibrotic response (Asherman s syndrome, endometriosis) as well as other mucosal tissues which have a variable response to wounding. Explanation: healing stem niche are regenerative growth factors expression gene fibrosis stroma injury normal women with disease associated uterine regeneration potential progenitor proliferation new bone marrow derived from these may be adult renewal progenitors source sites heal function not known 1 fibroblast activation transforming process wounds ability it development injured uterus resident also how important data studies on role proliferative self non reable critical time after loss mechanisms wounded skin related pregnancy key regulatory 2 health conditions such found similar cellular has but will regenerating capacity Ial blood endothelial damage site could previously healthy niches future required changes when
Adaptation to fluctuating environmental conditions is difficult to achieve. Phase variation mechanisms can overcome this difficulty by altering genomic architecture in a subset of individuals, creating a phenotypically heterogeneous population with subpopulations optimized to persist when conditions change, or are encountered, suddenly. We have identified a phase variation system in Burkholderia thailandensis that generates a genotypically and phenotypically heterogeneous population. Genetic analyses revealed that RecA-mediated homologous recombination between a pair of insertion sequence (IS) 2-like elements duplicates a 208. 6 kb region of DNA that contains 157 coding sequences. RecA-mediated homologous recombination also resolves merodiploids, and hence copy number of the region is varied and dynamic within populations. We showed that the presence of two or more copies of the region is advantageous for growth in a biofilm, and a single copy is advantageous during planktonic growth. While IS elements are well known to contribute to evolution through gene inactivation, polar effects on downstream genes, and altering genomic architecture, we believe that this system represents a rare example of IS element-mediated evolution in which the IS elements provide homologous sequences for amplification of a chromosomal region that provides a selective advantage under specific growth conditions, thereby expanding the lifestyle repertoire of the species. Explanation: genetic an ability bacterial strains bacteria cells evolved these as it A factors The be found their systems response changes fitness results In mechanism may different selection natural adaptive mutations sites genome plasticity organisms from has such As many other how important new B resistance our previously Ienvironment selected variants strain diversity et virulence complex w1 host disease associated S type not same evolutionary arms immunity strategies adaptation thus invasion into novel regions This infection pathogenic Escherichia coli iceable E pathogens evolve what could present study Here they regulatory cell survival capacity similar but one expression
The rate and accuracy of translation hinges upon multiple components including transfer RNA (tRNA) pools, tRNA modifying enzymes, and rRNA molecules many of which are redundant in terms of gene copy number or function. It has been hypothesized that the redundancy evolves under selection, driven by its impacts on growth rate. However, we lack empirical measurements of the fitness costs and benefits of redundancy, and we have poor a understanding of how this redundancy is organized across components. We manipulated redundancy in multiple translation components of Escherichia coli by deleting 28 tRNA genes, 3 tRNA modifying systems, and 4 rRNA operons in various combinations. We find that redundancy in tRNA pools is beneficial when nutrients are plentiful and costly under nutrient limitation. This nutrient-dependent cost of redundant tRNA genes stems from upper limits to translation capacity and growth rate, and therefore varies as a function of the maximum growth rate attainable in a given nutrient niche. The loss of redundancy in rRNA genes and tRNA modifying enzymes had similar nutrient-dependent fitness consequences. Importantly, these effects are also contingent upon interactions across translation components, indicating a layered hierarchy from copy number of tRNA and rRNA genes to their expression and downstream processing. Overall, our results indicate both positive and negative selection on redundancy in translation components, depending on a species evolutionary history with feasts and famines. Explanation: bacteria tRNAs for ribosomal protein synthesis cells ability it can be mechanisms organisms more ribosome functional studies thus bacterial evolution tRibfactors rRNAs et al other such an essential ribosomes proteins may not known related but cell population genetic information system one important cellular response changes specific pathways evolved new types 1 + In different between those required Reach r A / s mRNA translational regulation mutations rates all ribosways development they found some often conserved nature conditions while data tuHere study populations show same de replication Finally common mechanism use previously higher levels
The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a step change in the scale of sequencing data, with more genomes of SARS-CoV-2 having been sequenced than any other organism on earth. These sequences reveal key insights when represented as a phylogenetic tree, which captures the evolutionary history of the virus, and allows the identification of transmission events and the emergence of new variants. However, existing web-based tools for exploring phylogenies do not scale to the size of datasets now available for SARS-CoV-2. We have developed Taxonium, a new tool that uses WebGL to allow the exploration of trees with tens of millions of nodes in the browser for the first time. Taxonium links each node to associated metadata and supports mutation-annotated trees, which are able to capture all known genetic variation in a dataset. It can either be run entirely locally in the browser, from a server-based backend, or as a desktop application. We describe insights that analysing a tree of five million sequences can provide into SARS-CoV-2 evolution, and provide a tool at cov2tree. org for exploring a public tree of more than five million SARS-CoV-2 sequences. Taxonium can be applied to any tree, and is available at taxonium. org, with source code at github. com / theosanderson / taxonium. Explanation: we human genome viruses RNA viral by analysis our network this (1) gene evidence genes information host disease infection date whole novel coronavirus phylogeny an studies many humans these found sequence similar proteins predicted important? id networks large use it may also results show how well model their A genomic regions between infected people study using In species highly likely evolve sites such infections were previously work analyses predict protein 3 s coronoonet hosts related betatone through same patients outbreak strains' severe health critical diseases specific mutations within identified but they
RNA molecules are localized to specific subcellular regions through interactions between RNA regulatory elements and RNA binding proteins (RBPs). Generally, our knowledge of the mechanistic details behind the localization of a given RNA is restricted to a particular cell type. Here, we show that RNA / RBP interactions that regulate RNA localization in one cell type predictably regulate localization in other cell types with vastly different morphologies. To determine transcriptome-wide RNA spatial distributions across the apicobasal axis of human intestinal epithelial cells, we used our recently developed RNA proximity labeling technique, Halo-seq. We found that mRNAs encoding ribosomal proteins (RP mRNAs) were strongly localized to the basal pole of these cells. Using reporter transcripts and single-molecule RNA FISH, we found that pyrimidine-rich motifs in the 5 ′ UTRs of RP mRNAs were sufficient to drive basal RNA localization. Interestingly, the same motifs were also sufficient to drive RNA localization to the neurites of mouse neuronal cells. In both cell types, the regulatory activity of this motif was dependent on it being in the 5 ′ UTR of the transcript, was abolished upon perturbation of the RNA-binding protein LARP1, and was reduced upon inhibition of kinesin-1. To extend these findings, we compared subcellular RNAseq data from neuronal and epithelial cells. We found that the basal compartment of epithelial cells and the projections of neuronal cells were enriched for highly similar sets of RNAs, indicating that broadly similar mechanisms may be transporting RNAs to these morphologically distinct locations. These findings identify the first RNA element known to regulate RNA localization across the apicobasal axis of epithelial cells, establish LARP1 as an RNA localization regulator, and demonstrate that RNA localization mechanisms cut across cell morphologies. Explanation: Ropby mRNA expression polarity function important genes localize their cellular model 2 The process can neurons brain development into pathway transport factors targeting post processing at or more ribbon studies have such essential role small nuclear body A new mechanism many control gene regulation whow tight tissue level functional previously results 3 not yet identified which key disease RPeye retinal retinoform photoreceptors transcription factor novel light retina opsin rod photoreceptor Ogenetic loss RPE associated mutations lead eyes pathways normal they Rabs cargo intracellular membrane trafficking non complex required Dall visual
Aging is often associated with a loss of cell type identity that results in an increase in transcriptional noise in aged tissues. If this phenomenon reflects a fundamental property of aging remains an open question. Transcriptional changes at the cellular level are best detected by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq). However, the diverse computational methods used for the quantification of age-related loss of cellular identity have prevented reaching meaningful conclusions by direct comparison of existing scRNAseq datasets. To address these issues we created Decibel, a Python toolkit that implements side-to-side four commonly used methods for the quantification of age-related transcriptional noise in scRNAseq data. Additionally, we developed Scallop, a novel computational method for the quantification of membership of single cells to their assigned cell type cluster. Cells with a greater Scallop membership score are transcriptionally more stable. Application of these computational tools to seven aging datasets showed large variability between tissues and datasets, suggesting that increased transcriptional noise is not a universal hallmark of aging. To understand the source of apparent loss of cell type identity associated with aging, we analyzed cell type-specific changes in transcriptional noise and the changes in cell type composition of the mammalian lung. No robust pattern of cell type-specific transcriptional noise alteration was found across aging lung datasets. In contrast, age-associated changes in cell type composition of the lung were consistently found, particularly of immune cells. These results suggest that claims of increased transcriptional noise of aged tissues should be reformulated. Explanation: gene expression genes et We can model old our functional analysis human The as mechanisms known function or how common regulatory DNA from which 1% genome regulation important predicted ability transcription factors may same observed previously cancer risk genetic mutations tissue normal types disease such cancers study also present key biological network pathways ageing complex health effects many other similar but show mechanism networks change over development they could predict new molecular biology process models This studies when called Our understanding molecules altered role one regulators' -levels proteins significant different identified all ages lungs high complexity further
Tumour heterogeneity is thought to be a major barrier to successful cancer treatment due to the presence of drug resistant clonal lineages. However, identifying the characteristics of such lineages that underpin resistance to therapy has remained challenging. Here, we utilise clonal transcriptomics with WILD-seq; Wholistic Interrogation of Lineage Dynamics by sequencing, in mouse models of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) to understand response and resistance to therapy, including BET bromodomain inhibition and taxane-based chemotherapy. These analyses revealed oxidative stress protection by NRF2 as a major mechanism of taxane resistance and led to the discovery that our tumour models are collaterally sensitive to asparagine deprivation therapy using the clinical stage drug L-asparaginase after frontline treatment with docetaxel. In summary, clonal transcriptomics with WILD-seq identifies mechanisms of resistance to chemotherapy that are also operative in patients and pin points asparagine bioavailability as a druggable vulnerability of taxane-resistant lineages. Explanation: cell lines cells for therapeutic drugs sensitivity can We this which may or cancers high expression protein levels have pathways inhibitors targeted gene mutations / proteins these therapies development l1 novel use clinically on The pathway human genetic studies data from DNA level disease treated patient survival more genes predict were previously non lethal but not known how could identify key signalling network model tumours specific an important role mutant p53 leukaemia stem like This new genome copy number driver oncogene addiction vulnertaly loss TP53 wild type dependency growth factors target their genomic tumor ability treatments when
DMRT1 is the testis-determining factor in several species of vertebrates, but its involvement in mammalian testes differentiation, where SRY is the testis-determining gene, remains ambiguous. So far, DMRT1 loss-of-function has been described in two mammalian species and induces different phenotypes: Disorders of Sex Development (46, XY DSD) in men and male infertility in mice. We thus abolished DMRT1 expression by CRISPR / Cas9 in a third species of mammal, the rabbit. First, we observed that gonads from XY DMRT1 − / − rabbit fetuses differentiated like ovaries, highlighting that DMRT1 is involved in testis determination. In addition to SRY, DMRT1 is required in the supporting cells to increase the expression of the SOX9 gene, which heads the testicular genetic cascade. Second, we highlighted another function of DMRT1 in the germline since XX and XY DMRT1 − / − ovaries did not undergo meiosis and folliculogenesis. XX DMRT1 − / − adult females were sterile, showing that DMRT1 is also crucial for female fertility. To conclude, these phenotypes indicate an evolutionary continuum between non-mammalian vertebrates such as birds and non-rodent mammals. Furthermore, our data support the potential involvement of DMRT1 mutations in different human pathologies, such as 46, XY DSD as well as male and female infertility. Explanation: sex development X genes 1 mouse with are this same sperm DNA Tcell factors on can somatic or males results studies t The found humans Xembryos lethal effects meiotic recombination process may be during Mregenome dosage changes at critical time present known mechanisms et developmental stage normal one other have A key conserved RNA transcription regulatory sequence similar protein it could previously This how essential germ stem tissues their control tMR role mOur study Here tissue specific expressed proteins when they ARRal important spermatogenesis nuclear target spermatozoa developing oocytes more likely model
Obesity induced by high-fat diet (HFD) is a multi-factorial disease including genetic, physiological, behavioral, and environmental components. Drosophila has emerged as an effective metabolic disease model. Cytidine 5 '-triphosphate synthase (CTPS) is an important enzyme for the de novo synthesis of CTP, governing the cellular level of CTP and the rate of phospholipid synthesis. CTPS is known to form filamentous structures called cytoophidia, which are found in bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. Our study demonstrates that CTPS is crucial in regulating body weight and starvation resistance in Drosophila by functioning in the fat body. HFD-induced obesity leads to increased transcription of CTPS and elongates cytoophidia in larval adipocytes. Depleting CTPS in the fat body prevented HFD-induced obesity, including body weight gain, adipocyte expansion, and lipid accumulation, by inhibiting the PI3K-Akt-SREBP axis. Furthermore, a dominant-negative form of CTPS also prevented adipocyte expansion and downregulated lipogenic genes. These findings not only establish a functional link between CTPS and lipid homeostasis but also highlight the potential role of CTPS manipulation in the treatment of HFD-induced obesity. Explanation: cell signaling pathways we eat this cells lipids metabolism adipose tissue development with have regulation energy food intake associated mice liver triglyceride fatty more these animals develop increase levels can be our studies flies growth factors or expression The when control protein kinase phosphorylation enzymes activity changes activation / function tissues it may gene regulate proteins response on fly brain neurons feeding blood glucose related mechanisms et results their We nutrient condition increases fasting sickness behavior effects different from animal models fed data human health diseases 1 new regulatory pathway In mammals complex s how such A key metabolites nutrients
During vertebrate embryogenesis, the germ layers are patterned by secreted Nodal signals. In the classical model, Nodals elicit signaling by binding to a complex comprising Type I / II Activin receptors (Acvr) and the co-receptor Tdgf1. However, it is currently unclear whether receptor binding can also affect the distribution of Nodals themselves through the embryo, and it is unknown which of the putative Acvr paralogs mediate Nodal signaling in zebrafish. Here, we characterize three Type I (Acvr1) and four Type II (Acvr2) homologs and show that except for Acvr1c all receptor-encoding transcripts are maternally deposited and present during zebrafish embryogenesis. We generated mutants and used them together with combinatorial morpholino knockdown and CRISPR F0 knockout (KO) approaches to assess compound loss-of-function phenotypes. We discovered that the Acvr2 homologs function partly redundantly and partially independently of Nodal to pattern the early zebrafish embryo, whereas the Type I receptors Acvr1b-a and Acvr1b-b redundantly act as major mediators of Nodal signaling. By combining quantitative analyses with expression manipulations, we found that feedback-regulated Type I receptors and co-receptors can directly influence the diffusion and distribution of Nodals, providing a mechanism for the spatial restriction of Nodal signaling during germ layer patterning. Explanation: embryos nan cell fate cells development pathways genes et our results gene regulatory activity factors The signal pathway their ligand proteins type 1 both ligands this process how may be morphant system one role developmental genetic A form patterns later embryonic tissues formation mechanisms known molecules have As well these same or previously required maternal effect organizer at different levels regulation body axis endoderm gastrulation defects Xenopus laevis fish somatic oocyte? This two types protein nos mRNA from were nodal not effects Wnt canonical factor inhibition non conserved ans molecular into suggest roles Vegfus activation
Type I interferon (IFN-I) -mediated antiviral responses are central to host defense against viral infections. Crucial is the tight and well-orchestrated control of cellular decision-making leading to the production of IFN-Is. Innovative single-cell approaches revealed that the initiation of IFN-I production is limited to only fractions of 1 3% of the total population, both found in vitro, in vivo, and across cell types, which were thought to be stochastically regulated. To challenge this dogma, we addressed the influence of various stochastic and deterministic host-intrinsic factors on dictating early IFN-I responses, using a murine fibroblast reporter model. Epigenetic drugs influenced the percentage of responding cells. Next, with the classical Luria Delbrück fluctuation test, we provided evidence for transient heritability driving responder fates, which was verified with mathematical modeling. Finally, while studying varying cell densities, we substantiated an important role for cell density in dictating responsiveness, similar to the phenomenon of quorum sensing. Together, this systems immunology approach opens up new avenues to progress the fundamental understanding on cellular decision-making during early IFN-I responses, which can be translated to other (immune) signaling systems. Explanation: response models development time by virus infection disease human type one gene expression levels as mechanisms data our key regulatory genes regulation these viruses ability their We process known function or infected system The more IFNs cytokines IL 2 / In cytokine how may not yet results have two such critical studies at different from mechanism JAK kinase signal pathways activation signals through it regulators proteins complex biological activity level also unknown signalling molecules used previously work dependent inflammatory macrophages associated health diseases treatment immunity related TNF A novel therapeutic anti IFIinterferons protein This inflammation conditions study all
Microtubules (MTs) are built from α- / β-tubulin dimers and used as tracks by kinesin and dynein motors to transport a variety of cargos, such as mRNAs, proteins, and organelles, within the cell. Tubulins are subjected to several post-translational modifications (PTMs). Glutamylation is one of them, and it is responsible for adding one or more glutamic acid residues as branched peptide chains to the C-terminal tails of both α- and β-tubulin. However, very little is known about the specific modifications found on the different tubulin isotypes in vivo and the role of these PTMs in MT transport and other cellular processes in vivo. In this study, we found that in Drosophila ovaries, glutamylation of α-tubulin isotypes occurred clearly on the C-terminal ends of αTub84B and αTub84D (αTub84B / D). In contrast, the ovarian α-tubulin, αTub67C, is not glutamylated. The C-terminal ends of αTub84B / D are glutamylated at several glutamyl sidechains in various combinations. Drosophila TTLL5 is required for the mono- and poly-glutamylation of ovarian αTub84B / D and with this for the proper localization of glutamylated microtubules. Similarly, the normal distribution of kinesin-1 in the germline relies on TTLL5. Next, two kinesin-1-dependent processes, the precise localization of Staufen and the fast, bidirectional ooplasmic streaming, depend on TTLL5, too, suggesting a causative pathway. In the nervous system, a mutation of TTLL5 that inactivates its enzymatic activity decreases the pausing of anterograde axonal transport of mitochondria. Our results demonstrate in vivo roles of TTLL5 in differential glutamylation of α-tubulins and point to the in vivo importance of α-tubulin glutamylation for cellular functions involving microtubule transport. Explanation: protein motor's function their cargo binding interactions glutamate 5 new tail modification enzymes targeting may also cells non essential neurons tmany have mechanism use previously studies We identified an unimportant conserved γ cycle phosphorylation sites mutations effects can be; how our kinases regulation old complex molecular tuend modified N plus kK4 linker human disease linked mutant GluGlu addition lysine acetylation TIKinesA which et al work linking into neuronal polarity control mechanisms t mRNA glus trafficking associated genes expression they all novel suggest were EB1 light changes localize molecules
The development of multiple chromosome-scale reference genome sequences in many taxonomic groups has yielded a high-resolution view of the patterns and processes of molecular evolution. Nonetheless, leveraging information across multiple genomes remains a significant challenge in nearly all eukaryotic systems. These challenges range from studying the evolution of chromosome structure, to finding candidate genes for quantitative trait loci, to testing hypotheses about speciation and adaptation. Here, we present GENESPACE, which addresses these challenges by integrating conserved gene order and orthology to define the expected physical position of all genes across multiple genomes. We demonstrate this utility by dissecting presence absence, copy-number, and structural variation at three levels of biological organization: spanning 300 million years of vertebrate sex chromosome evolution, across the diversity of the Poaceae (grass) plant family, and among 26 maize cultivars. The methods to build and visualize syntenic orthology in the GENESPACE R package offer a significant addition to existing gene family and synteny programs, especially in polyploid, outbred, and other complex genomes. Explanation: that are evolutionary model is with genetic regions have an can be genomic sequence data large studies ancestral species not yet A chromosomes new found evidence whole or on our results In important more such as well conservation related but also known how often it may provide work analysis comparative map some were previously This study using similar between one DNA evolve novel chromosomal inverindifferent region 1 likely As inverted repeat families into same where evolved lineage group two major Incommon us / both arms X linkage I their derived within show unique highly recombination rate human
Most bacteria exist and interact within polymicrobial communities. These interactions produce unique compounds, increase virulence and augment antibiotic resistance. One community associated with negative healthcare outcomes consists of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. When co-cultured, virulence factors secreted by P. aeruginosa reduce metabolism and growth in S. aureus. When grown in vitro, this allows P. aeruginosa to drive S. aureus toward extinction. However, when found in vivo, both species can co-exist. Previous work has noted that this may be due to altered gene expression or mutations. However, little is known about how the growth environment could influence the co-existence of both species. Using a combination of mathematical modeling and experimentation, we show that changes to bacterial growth and metabolism caused by differences in the growth environment can determine the final population composition. We found that changing the carbon source in growth media affects the ratio of ATP to growth rate for both species, a metric we call absolute growth. We found that as a growth environment increases the absolute growth for one species, that species will increasingly dominate the co-culture. This is due to interactions between growth, metabolism, and metabolism-altering virulence factors produced by P. aeruginosa. Finally, we show that the relationship between absolute growth and the final population composition can be perturbed by altering the spatial structure in the community. Our results demonstrate that differences in growth environment can account for conflicting observations regarding the co-existence of these bacterial species in the literature, provides support for the intermediate disturbance hypothesis, and may offer a novel mechanism to manipulate polymicrobial populations. Explanation: The) model cells ability important production strains are our (A more infection disease conditions host response mechanisms an activity et infections have their on system In which antibiotics killing cell survival pathogens complex other also data analysis models predicted drug treatment strategies used previously studies different from observed effects bacterium phenotypes strain global health human clinical isolates such not present same but drugs treatments against organisms antimicrobial susceptibility levels at systems well it pathways responses pathogen control network key metabolic genes regulatory networks interaction many signaling cellular process understanding organism pathogenic role diseases specific environmental regulation proteins unknown
The quantity and complexity of data being generated and published in biology has increased substantially, but few methods exist for capturing knowledge about phenotypes derived from molecular interactions between diverse groups of species, in such a way that is amenable to data-driven biology and research. To improve access to this knowledge, we have constructed a framework for the curation of the scientific literature studying interspecies interactions, using data curated for the Pathogen Host Interactions database (PHI-base) as a case study. The framework provides a curation tool, phenotype ontology, and controlled vocabularies to curate pathogen host interaction data, at the level of the host, pathogen, strain, gene, and genotype. The concept of a multispecies genotype, the metagenotype, is introduced to facilitate capturing changes in the disease-causing abilities of pathogens, and host resistance or susceptibility, observed by gene alterations. We report on this framework and describe PHI-Canto, a community curation tool for use by publication authors. Explanation: can be human health information system known diseases genes are infection hosts genetic studies organism with these results bacteria associated microbes organisms systems biological network model our understanding complex many more than humans genome analysis their how experimental evidence across infectious pathogenesis pathways an infections related proteins / not found novel microbial which also bacterial pathogenic mechanisms microbe networks immune response against specific bacterium type animal P et microbiome cells signaling pathway discovery new findings In same it may well experiments association unknown function ability important role microorganisms other yet models through predicted functional Pseudomonas aeruginosa virulence factors infecting different
Sequence variation in enhancers that control cell-type-specific gene transcription contributes significantly to phenotypic variation within human populations. However, it remains difficult to predict precisely the effect of any given sequence variant on enhancer function due to the complexity of DNA sequence motifs that determine transcription factor (TF) binding to enhancers in their native genomic context. Using F1-hybrid cells derived from crosses between distantly related inbred strains of mice, we identified thousands of enhancers with allele-specific TF binding and / or activity. We find that genetic variants located within the central region of enhancers are most likely to alter TF binding and enhancer activity. We observe that the AP-1 family of TFs (Fos / Jun) are frequently required for binding of TEAD TFs and for enhancer function. However, many sequence variants outside of core motifs for AP-1 and TEAD also impact enhancer function, including sequences flanking core TF motifs and AP-1 half sites. Taken together, these data represent one of the most comprehensive assessments of allele-specific TF binding and enhancer function to date and reveal how sequence changes at enhancers alter their function across evolutionary timescales. Explanation: a regulatory by genes cis elements associated expression differences functional TE an is known which can be common eour found this same disease risk factors have not predicted key protein interaction A genome regions association study results The as mechanism may important role different such mutations Tet regulation tissue response element more often tE target transcriptional activation proteins complex interactions involved model explain effects through In mechanisms other potential T alleles previously non essential mouse development TEs loci were all those critical promoter TSS chromatin upstream c ets regulated AP1 CTAs site promoters active motif they
Viruses interact with the intracellular transport machinery to promote viral replication. Such host virus interactions can drive host gene adaptation, leaving signatures of pathogen-driven evolution in host genomes. Here, we leverage these genetic signatures to identify the dynein activating adaptor, ninein-like (NINL), as a critical component in the antiviral innate immune response and as a target of viral antagonism. Unique among genes encoding components of active dynein complexes, NINL has evolved under recurrent positive (diversifying) selection, particularly in its carboxy-terminal cargo-binding region. Consistent with a role for NINL in host immunity, we demonstrate that NINL knockout cells exhibit an impaired response to interferon, resulting in increased permissiveness to viral replication. Moreover, we show that proteases encoded by diverse picornaviruses and coronaviruses cleave and disrupt NINL function in a host- and virus-specific manner. Our work reveals the importance of NINL in the antiviral response and the utility of using signatures of host virus genetic conflicts to uncover new components of antiviral immunity and targets of viral antagonism. Explanation: infection cell entry human RNA is proteins this infected cellular protein known are We have mechanism against or ability IThe on their our studies which during disease resistance HIV 1 / A key conserved essential factors into be infections required expression such In important pathways interaction between use inhibitors identified mechanisms it may also other arms type I non lethal mutations Lmany more but not functional previously found This two receptors signaling complex system hifrom how different those were receptor bind activity similar thus while targeting inhibition hosts pathway they used model pathogens associated novel strategies infectious
Actin isoforms organize into distinct networks that are essential for the normal function of eukaryotic cells. Despite a high level of sequence and structure conservation, subtle differences in their design principles determine the interaction with myosin motors and actin-binding proteins. Therefore, identifying how the structure of actin isoforms relates to function is important for our understanding of normal cytoskeletal physiology. Here, we report the high-resolution structures of filamentous skeletal muscle α-actin (3. 37 Å), cardiac muscle α-actin (3. 07 Å), ß-actin (2. 99 Å), and γ-actin (3. 38 Å) in the Mg2 + · ADP state with their native post-translational modifications. The structures revealed isoform-specific conformations of the N-terminus that shift closer to the filament surface upon myosin binding, thereby establishing isoform-specific interfaces. Collectively, the structures of single-isotype, post-translationally modified bare skeletal muscle α-actin, cardiac muscle α-actin, ß-actin, and γ-actin reveal general principles, similarities, and differences between isoforms. They complement the repertoire of known actin structures and allow for a comprehensive understanding of in vitro and in vivo functions of actin isoforms. Explanation: by protein these regulatory phosphorylation sites on regulation β an as ATP bind different muscles contraction force power heart disease mutations human studies have this at sarcomere assembly A or more which may be found changes motor activity effects from use cell mechanism work sarcomthin filaments interactions new molecular dynamics also ability but results were role can study contractile properties energy molecules 1 / We regulated non functional data it's not all other when has been previously identified myofiber cross striated fibers expression two control beta tropomyosin Ca tifast troponin complex I light chains cause mutation
High-throughput transgenesis using synthetic DNA libraries is a powerful method for systematically exploring genetic function. Diverse synthesized libraries have been used for protein engineering, identification of protein protein interactions, characterization of promoter libraries, developmental and evolutionary lineage tracking, and various other exploratory assays. However, the need for library transgenesis has effectively restricted these approaches to single-cell models. Here, we present Transgenic Arrays Resulting in Diversity of Integrated Sequences (TARDIS), a simple yet powerful approach to large-scale transgenesis that overcomes typical limitations encountered in multicellular systems. TARDIS splits the transgenesis process into a two-step process: creation of individuals carrying experimentally introduced sequence libraries, followed by inducible extraction and integration of individual sequences / library components from the larger library cassette into engineered genomic sites. Thus, transformation of a single individual, followed by lineage expansion and functional transgenesis, gives rise to thousands of genetically unique transgenic individuals. We demonstrate the power of this system using engineered, split selectable TARDIS sites in Caenorhabditis elegans to generate (1) a large set of individually barcoded lineages and (2) transcriptional reporter lines from predefined promoter libraries. We find that this approach increases transformation yields up to approximately 1000-fold over current single-step methods. While we demonstrate the utility of TARDIS using C. elegans, in principle the process is adaptable to any system where experimentally generated genomic loci landing pads and diverse, heritable DNA elements can be generated. Explanation: gene expression data are genes et development as genome diversity array analysis with use previously results In an on screen many more experiments discovery novel proteins identified cells ability not known studies organism model organisms The specific nature may well experimental evolution selection directed screens our s how such A se easeven genomes found their target selected natural or it different evolved species show which could identify new information seq high level biological activity thus generation was important but screening designed tools based study As one discovered properties Dets Drosophila RNAi small molecules when essential yeast enzymes
To reach their final destinations, outer membrane proteins (OMPs) of gram-negative bacteria undertake an eventful journey beginning in the cytosol. Multiple molecular machines, chaperones, proteases, and other enzymes facilitate the translocation and assembly of OMPs. These helpers usually associate, often transiently, forming large protein assemblies. They are not well understood due to experimental challenges in capturing and characterizing protein-protein interactions (PPIs), especially transient ones. Using AF2Complex, we introduce a high-throughput, deep learning pipeline to identify PPIs within the Escherichia coli cell envelope and apply it to several proteins from an OMP biogenesis pathway. Among the top confident hits obtained from screening ~ 1500 envelope proteins, we find not only expected interactions but also unexpected ones with profound implications. Subsequently, we predict atomic structures for these protein complexes. These structures, typically of high confidence, explain experimental observations and lead to mechanistic hypotheses for how a chaperone assists a nascent, precursor OMP emerging from a translocon, how another chaperone prevents it from aggregating and docks to a β-barrel assembly port, and how a protease performs quality control. This work presents a general strategy for investigating biological pathways by using structural insights gained from deep learning-based predictions. Explanation: that predicted folding is essential bacterial inner secretion Your studies mechanism can be this process help model structure folds new found many more as complex et development methods We previously knowledge or A known data important yet results E periplasmic binding ability The prediction models have all such which understanding cellular import targeting post processing factors into ATP energy production / function transport system two most likely mechanisms use information they target one fold inside cells machinery components required precursors maturation cargo export systems may provide novel substrates release its processes chaperyIn at machine conserved Rfrequently
Midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons are key regulators of basal ganglia functions. The axonal domain of these neurons is highly complex, with a large subset of non-synaptic release sites and a smaller subset of synaptic terminals from which in addition to DA, glutamate or GABA are also released. The molecular mechanisms regulating the connectivity of DA neurons and their neurochemical identity are unknown. An emerging literature suggests that neuroligins, trans-synaptic cell adhesion molecules, regulate both DA neuron connectivity and neurotransmission. However, the contribution of their major interaction partners, neurexins (Nrxns), is unexplored. Here, we tested the hypothesis that Nrxns regulate DA neuron neurotransmission. Mice with conditional deletion of all Nrxns in DA neurons (DAT:: NrxnsKO) exhibited normal basic motor functions. However, they showed an impaired locomotor response to the psychostimulant amphetamine. In line with an alteration in DA neurotransmission, decreased levels of the membrane DA transporter (DAT) and increased levels of the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2) were detected in the striatum of DAT:: NrxnsKO mice, along with reduced activity-dependent DA release. Strikingly, electrophysiological recordings revealed an increase of GABA co-release from DA neuron axons in the striatum of these mice. Together, these findings suggest that Nrxns act as regulators of the functional connectivity of DA neurons. Explanation: NRfor D1 receptor DAmore neurotransmitter receptors expression d function et this protein 1 signaling system by dopaminergic synapses on neuronal network excitatory glutamatergic presynaptic regulation striatal D2 / s nigra dopD cells have effects Nit into Dloss associated novel interactions N terminal binding proteins may be regulated such studies We previously knowledge role specific circuit information systems use known important neural networks other not found out mechanism transporters gene regulatory at rat ventral mesaccumbens reward addiction risk factors high drug related behavior rats can action potential opioid drugs addictive behaviors; study control different
Mobile health (mHealth) interventions, which require ownership of mobile phones, are being investigated throughout Africa. We estimate the percentage of individuals who own mobile phones in 33 African countries, identify a relationship between ownership and proximity to a health clinic (HC), and quantify inequities in ownership. We investigate basic mobile phones (BPs) and smartphones (SPs): SPs can connect to the internet, BPs cannot. We use nationally representative data collected in 2017 2018 from 44, 224 individuals in Round 7 of the Afrobarometer surveys. We use Bayesian multilevel logistic regression models for our analyses. We find 82% of individuals in 33 countries own mobile phones: 42% BPs and 40% SPs. Individuals who live close to an HC have higher odds of ownership than those who do not (aOR: 1. 31, Bayesian 95% highest posterior density [HPD] region: 1. 24 1. 39). Men, compared with women, have over twice the odds of ownership (aOR: 2. 37, 95% HPD region: 1. 96 2. 84). Urban residents, compared with rural residents, have almost three times the odds (aOR: 2. 66, 95% HPD region: 2. 22 3. 18) and, amongst mobile phone owners, nearly three times the odds of owning an SP (aOR: 2. 67, 95% HPD region: 2. 33 3. 10). Ownership increases with age, peaks in 26 40 year olds, then decreases. Individuals under 30 are more likely to own an SP than a BP, older individuals more likely to own a BP than an SP. Probability of ownership decreases with the Lived Poverty Index; however, some of the poorest individuals own SPs. If the digital devices needed for mHealth interventions are not equally available within the population (which we have found is the current situation), rolling out mHealth interventions in Africa is likely to propagate already existing inequities in access to healthcare. Explanation: that-people households information technology this on their as such study owned by used technologies many factors household social scale it has also across low level The other important new or even these intervention development high income country poverty urban malaria control public Health Isibe effective tools were studies disease transmission HIV / s atusing could impact time at human resource capacity they results research evidence there was indeveloping communities living related knowledge travel cost TB treatment coverage survey methods provide help all burden poor sub national prevalence mapping areas where most patients home care
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) antibody levels can be used to assess humoral immune responses following SARS-CoV-2 infection or vaccination, and may predict risk of future infection. Higher levels of SARS-CoV-2 anti-Spike antibodies are known to be associated with increased protection against future SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, variation in antibody levels and risk factors for lower antibody levels following each round of SARS-CoV-2 vaccination have not been explored across a wide range of socio-demographic, SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination, and health factors within population-based cohorts. Samples were collected from 9361 individuals from TwinsUK and ALSPAC UK population-based longitudinal studies and tested for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. Cross-sectional sampling was undertaken jointly in April-May 2021 (TwinsUK, N = 4256; ALSPAC, N = 4622), and in TwinsUK only in November 2021-January 2022 (N = 3575). Variation in antibody levels after first, second, and third SARS-CoV-2 vaccination with health, socio-demographic, SARS-CoV-2 infection, and SARS-CoV-2 vaccination variables were analysed. Using multivariable logistic regression models, we tested associations between antibody levels following vaccination and: (1) SARS-CoV-2 infection following vaccination (s); (2) health, socio-demographic, SARS-CoV-2 infection, and SARS-CoV-2 vaccination variables. Within TwinsUK, single-vaccinated individuals with the lowest 20% of anti-Spike antibody levels at initial testing had threefold greater odds of SARS-CoV-2 infection over the next 6 9 months (OR = 2. 9, 95% CI: 1. 4, 6. 0), compared to the top 20%. In TwinsUK and ALSPAC, individuals identified as at increased risk of COVID-19 complication through the UK Shielded Patient List had consistently greater odds (two- to fourfold) of having antibody levels in the lowest 10%. Third vaccination increased absolute antibody levels for almost all individuals, and reduced relative disparities compared with earlier vaccinations. These findings quantify the association between antibody level and risk of subsequent infection, and support a policy of triple vaccination for the generation of protective antibodies. Antibody testing was funded by UK Health Security Agency. The National Core Studies program is funded by COVID-19 Longitudinal Health and Wellbeing National Core Study (LHW-NCS) HMT / UKRI / MRC ([MC _ PC _ 20030] and [MC _ PC _ 20059]). Related funding was also provided by the NIHR 606 (CONVALESCENCE grant [COV-LT-0009]). TwinsUK is funded by the Wellcome Trust, Medical Research Council, Versus Arthritis, European Union Horizon 2020, Chronic Disease Research Foundation (CDRF), Zoe Ltd and the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Clinical Research Network (CRN) and Biomedical Research Centre based at Guy s and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust in partnership with King s College London. The UK Medical Research Council and Wellcome (Grant ref: [217065 / Z / 19 / Z]) and the University of Bristol provide core support for ALSPAC. Explanation: vaccine virus immunity that exposure human serum neutralizing IgG response data A novel pandemic infections disease severe pneumonia development high mortality potential vaccines viral spike binding specific people susceptible host sera our knowledge this during infected subjects plasma an study entry group S Coronavirus challenge viruses' We previously developed model predicted results similar herd effective cross two key transmission but more likely exposures non natural such critical time window public which higher age groups naturally exposed low titres? As well these early life years post immunization new experimental treatment patients develop current outbreak mild laboratory diagnostic highly sensitive
