Lung-resident (LR) mesenchymal stem and stromal cells (MSCs) are key elements of the alveolar niche and fundamental regulators of homeostasis and regeneration. We interrogated their function during virus-induced lung injury using the highly prevalent respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) which causes severe outcomes in infants. We applied complementary approaches with primary pediatric LR-MSCs and a state-of-the-art model of human RSV infection in lamb. Remarkably, RSV-infection of pediatric LR-MSCs led to a robust activation, characterized by a strong antiviral and pro-inflammatory phenotype combined with mediators related to T cell function. In line with this, following in vivo infection, RSV invades and activates LR-MSCs, resulting in the expansion of the pulmonary MSC pool. Moreover, the global transcriptional response of LR-MSCs appears to follow RSV disease, switching from an early antiviral signature to repair mechanisms including differentiation, tissue remodeling, and angiogenesis. These findings demonstrate the involvement of LR-MSCs during virus-mediated acute lung injury and may have therapeutic implications. Explanation: that adult host immune responses is for we lungs fibrosis development Lbe inflammation can these critical role as gene expression IL cytokines signaling factors were The important airway epithelial innate immunity system after infected macrophages type 1 cytokine secretion viral associated genes anti cellular or increased our data studies on treatment injured blood endothelial derived progenitor LRspecific new developing into healing effects vascular growth VEGF angiogenic bone marrow hematopoietic CD34 + cord Blood monocytes / s progenitors differentiate BM such regenerative capacity but also patients develop more at adults normal mice models study found could not functional mature
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is endemic in South Sudan, where outbreaks occur frequently. Because of changes in the immune system during pregnancy, pregnant women are considered particularly vulnerable for developing complications of VL disease, including opportunistic infections. There is limited evidence available about clinical aspects and treatment outcomes of VL in pregnancy. We describe characteristics, maternal and pregnancy outcomes from a cohort of pregnant women with VL. We conducted a retrospective analysis using routine programme data from a MSF health facility in Lankien, Jonglei State, South Sudan, between Oct 2014 and April 2018. Records were extracted of women diagnosed with VL while pregnant, and those symptomatic during pregnancy but diagnosed during the first two weeks postpartum. Records were matched with a random sample of non-pregnant women of reproductive age (15 45 years) with VL from the same period. We included 113 women with VL in pregnancy, and 223 non-pregnant women with VL. Women with VL in pregnancy presented with more severe anaemia, were more likely to need blood transfusion (OR 9. 3; 95% CI 2. 5 34. 2) and were more often prescribed antibiotics (OR 6. 0; 95% CI 3. 4 10. 6), as compared to non-pregnant women with VL. Adverse pregnancy outcomes, including miscarriage and premature delivery, were reported in 20% (16 / 81) where VL was diagnosed in pregnancy, and 50% 13 / 26) where VL was diagnosed postpartum. Postpartum haemorrhage was common. Pregnant women were more likely to require extension of treatment to achieve cure (OR 10. 0; 95% CI 4. 8 20. 9), as compared to non-pregnant women with VL. Nevertheless, overall initial cure rates were high (96. 5%) and mortality was low (1. 8%) in this cohort of pregnant women with VL. This is the largest cohort in the literature of VL in pregnancy. Our data suggest that good maternal survival rates are possible in resource-limited settings, despite the high incidence of complications. Explanation: study have risk factors associated deaths at infants case mothers who children death cases infection control interventions can be pregnancies outcome studies on mother treated patients we infant HIV transmission human infected which all these life time The not known results when an early diagnosis or new drug use -woman has increased fetal adverse events important malaria parasite clearance by intervention strategies used therapeutic window safe anti fkdrugs combination therapy effective treatments vIn response adults primIIL found no other people died babies cause serious liver failure may well management affected fetuses loss after placental
A high burden of Salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar Typhi (S. Typhi) bacteremia has been reported from urban informal settlements in sub-Saharan Africa, yet little is known about the introduction of these strains to the region. Understanding regional differences in the predominant strains of S. Typhi can provide insight into the genomic epidemiology. We genetically characterized 310 S. Typhi isolates from typhoid fever surveillance conducted over a 12-year period (2007 2019) in Kibera, an urban informal settlement in Nairobi, Kenya, to assess the circulating strains, their antimicrobial resistance attributes, and how they relate to global S. Typhi isolates. Whole genome multi-locus sequence typing (wgMLST) identified 4 clades, with up to 303 pairwise allelic differences. The identified genotypes correlated with wgMLST clades. The predominant clade contained 290 (93. 5%) isolates with a median of 14 allele differences (range 0 52) and consisted entirely of genotypes 4. 3. 1. 1 and 4. 3. 1. 2. Resistance determinants were identified exclusively in the predominant clade. Determinants associated with resistance to aminoglycosides were observed in 245 isolates (79. 0%), sulphonamide in 243 isolates (78. 4%), trimethoprim in 247 isolates (79. 7%), tetracycline in 224 isolates (72. 3%), chloramphenicol in 247 isolates (79. 6%), β-lactams in 239 isolates (77. 1%) and quinolones in 62 isolates (20. 0%). Multidrug resistance (MDR) determinants (defined as determinants conferring resistance to ampicillin, chloramphenicol and cotrimoxazole) were found in 235 (75. 8%) isolates. The prevalence of MDR associated genes was similar throughout the study period (2007 2012: 203, 76. 3% vs 2013 2019: 32, 72. 7%; Fisher s Exact Test: P = 0. 5478, while the proportion of isolates harboring quinolone resistance determinants increased (2007 2012: 42, 15. 8% and 2013 2019: 20, 45. 5%; Fisher s Exact Test: P < 0. 0001) following a decline in S. Typhi in Kibera. Some isolates (49, 15. 8%) harbored both MDR and quinolone resistance determinants. There were no determinants associated with resistance to cephalosporins or azithromycin detected among the isolates sequenced in this study. Plasmid markers were only identified in the main clade including IncHI1A and IncHI1B (R27) in 226 (72. 9%) isolates, and IncQ1 in 238 (76. 8%) isolates. Molecular clock analysis of global typhoid isolates and isolates from Kibera suggests that genotype 4. 3. 1 has been introduced multiple times in Kibera. Several genomes from Kibera formed a clade with genomes from Kenya, Malawi, South Africa, and Tanzania. The most recent common ancestor (MRCA) for these isolates was from around 1997. Another isolate from Kibera grouped with several isolates from Uganda, sharing a common ancestor from around 2009. In summary, S. Typhi in Kibera belong to four wgMLST clades one of which is frequently associated with MDR genes and this poses a challenge in treatment and control. Explanation: transmission drug resistant bacteria are we have molecular evolution studies strain regions gene virulence factors such disease outbreak countries by endemic novel vaccine use public health risk infection carriage data across years more than results 0on selected antibiotic susceptibility mutations within previously used clones spread globally different between cases community cause infections outbreaks due our population at country further it all against widely distribution genetic Typhimurium clonal complex mfK coli lineages two major epidemic source patients clinical case mortality time Shigella dysenicthose antibiotics first non typhus specific clone responsible travel / there may be
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) marks the third novel β-coronavirus to cause significant human mortality in the last two decades. Although vaccines are available, too few have been administered worldwide to keep the virus in check and to prevent mutations leading to immune escape. To determine if antibodies could be identified with universal coronavirus activity, plasma from convalescent subjects was screened for IgG against a stabilized pre-fusion SARS-CoV-2 spike S2 domain, which is highly conserved between human β-coronavirus. From these subjects, several S2-specific human monoclonal antibodies (hmAbs) were developed that neutralized SARS-CoV-2 with recognition of all variants of concern (VoC) tested (Beta, Gamma, Delta, Epsilon, and Omicron). The hmAb 1249A8 emerged as the most potent and broad hmAb, able to recognize all human β-coronavirus and neutralize SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. 1249A8 demonstrated significant prophylactic activity in K18 hACE2 mice infected with SARS-CoV-2 lineage A and lineage B Beta, and Omicron VoC. 1249A8 delivered as a single 4 mg / kg intranasal (i. n.) dose to hamsters 12 hours following infection with SARS-CoV-2 Delta protected them from weight loss, with therapeutic activity further enhanced when combined with 1213H7, an S1-specific neutralizing hmAb. As little as 2 mg / kg of 1249A8 i. n. dose 12 hours following infection with SARS-CoV Urbani strain, protected hamsters from weight loss and significantly reduced upper and lower respiratory viral burden. These results indicate in vivo cooperativity between S1 and S2 specific neutralizing hmAbs and that potent universal coronavirus neutralizing mAbs with therapeutic potential can be induced in humans and can guide universal coronavirus vaccine development. Explanation: anti serum antibody binding antiviral host cell entry receptor use by viruses envelope proteins S protective immunity broadly cross 1 we previously data critical Snow or severe disease treatment vaccination strategies used high affinity new targeted active pannAbs may our studies protection this well known effective also important type shreIn common understanding but infections susceptible animals model more spikes pandemic Aduring has develop similar key work We found their sera targeting epitopes not required better therapeutics approach one major lethal mouse Imany such patients non infectious agents it's s large scale study using
Many fungal species utilize hydroxyderivatives of benzene and benzoic acid as carbon sources. The yeast Candida parapsilosis metabolizes these compounds via the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways, whose components are encoded by two metabolic gene clusters. In this study, we determine the chromosome level assembly of the C. parapsilosis strain CLIB214 and use it for transcriptomic and proteomic investigation of cells cultivated on hydroxyaromatic substrates. We demonstrate that the genes coding for enzymes and plasma membrane transporters involved in the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways are highly upregulated and their expression is controlled in a substrate-specific manner. However, regulatory proteins involved in this process are not known. Using the knockout mutants, we show that putative transcriptional factors encoded by the genes OTF1 and GTF1 located within these gene clusters function as transcriptional activators of the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathway, respectively. We also show that the activation of both pathways is accompanied by upregulation of genes for the enzymes involved in β-oxidation of fatty acids, glyoxylate cycle, amino acid metabolism, and peroxisome biogenesis. Transcriptome and proteome profiles of the cells grown on 4-hydroxybenzoate and 3-hydroxybenzoate, which are metabolized via the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathway, respectively, reflect their different connection to central metabolism. Yet we find that the expression profiles differ also in the cells assimilating 4-hydroxybenzoate and hydroquinone, which are both metabolized in the same pathway. This finding is consistent with the phenotype of the Otf1p-lacking mutant, which exhibits impaired growth on hydroxybenzoates, but still utilizes hydroxybenzenes, thus indicating that additional, yet unidentified transcription factor could be involved in the 3-oxoadipate pathway regulation. Moreover, we propose that bicarbonate ions resulting from decarboxylation of hydroxybenzoates also contribute to differences in the cell responses to hydroxybenzoates and hydroxybenzenes. Finally, our phylogenetic analysis highlights evolutionary paths leading to metabolic adaptations of yeast cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic substrates. Explanation: new genetic studies have an enzyme activities can used strains ability bacteria degradation more than previously found) results catabolic routes (1 metabolites production or other well cellular uptake / all organisms host complex one such important many novel mechanisms transport protein Ybo system A key functional yhow has similar metabolite binding properties were identified potential human disease mutations oal yeasts genome they may activity intracellular conditions high oxidative catabolism into Oat present knowledge Beach bacterial arabd essential 2 common molecular mechanism further unknown products b utilization As unique its chromy
Improving biological plausibility and functional capacity are two important goals for brain models that connect low-level neural details to high-level behavioral phenomena. We develop a method called oracle-supervised Neural Engineering Framework (osNEF) to train biologically-detailed spiking neural networks that realize a variety of cognitively-relevant dynamical systems. Specifically, we train networks to perform computations that are commonly found in cognitive systems (communication, multiplication, harmonic oscillation, and gated working memory) using four distinct neuron models (leaky-integrate-and-fire neurons, Izhikevich neurons, 4-dimensional nonlinear point neurons, and 4-compartment, 6-ion-channel layer-V pyramidal cell reconstructions) connected with various synaptic models (current-based synapses, conductance-based synapses, and voltage-gated synapses). We show that osNEF networks exhibit the target dynamics by accounting for nonlinearities present within the neuron models: performance is comparable across all four systems and all four neuron models, with variance proportional to task and neuron model complexity. We also apply osNEF to build a model of working memory that performs a delayed response task using a combination of pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons connected with NMDA and GABA synapses. The baseline performance and forgetting rate of the model are consistent with animal data from delayed match-to-sample tasks (DMTST): we observe a baseline performance of 95% and exponential forgetting with time constant τ = 8. 5s, while a recent meta-analysis of DMTST performance across species observed baseline performances of 58 − 99% and exponential forgetting with time constants of τ = 2. 4 − 71s. These results demonstrate that osNEF can train functional brain models using biologically-detailed components and open new avenues for investigating the relationship between biophysical mechanisms and functional capabilities. Explanation: network et information system knowledge this firing activity neuronal circuits function as learning process our ability 1 complex temporal more known which have not yet on these may be mechanism use an how many such cognition human hippocampal place specific circuit at or their understanding novel hippocampus large dynamic properties were previously behavior dependent AD key role different processes when it predict future experiments studies used higher levels cortical excitatory recurrent long memories processing into experimental evidence they out but same number cortex has been well studied / learn structure able computational modeling study could both development spike timing cellular
Trisomy of human chromosome 21 (HSA21) causes Down syndrome (DS). The trisomy does not simply result in the upregulation of HSA21--encoded genes but also leads to a genome-wide transcriptomic deregulation, which affect differently each tissue and cell type as a result of epigenetic mechanisms and protein-protein interactions. We performed a meta-analysis integrating the differential expression (DE) analyses of all publicly available transcriptomic datasets, both in human and mouse, comparing trisomic and euploid transcriptomes from different sources. We integrated all these data in a DS network. We found that genome wide deregulation as a consequence of trisomy 21 is not arbitrary, but involves deregulation of specific molecular cascades in which both HSA21 genes and HSA21 interactors are more consistently deregulated compared to other genes. In fact, gene deregulation happens in clusters, so that groups from 2 to 13 genes are found consistently deregulated. Most of these events of co-deregulation involve genes belonging to the same GO category, and genes associated with the same disease class. The most consistent changes are enriched in interferon related categories and neutrophil activation, reinforcing the concept that DS is an inflammatory disease. Our results also suggest that the impact of the trisomy might diverge in each tissue due to the different gene set deregulation, even though the triplicated genes are the same. Our original method to integrate transcriptomic data confirmed not only the importance of known genes, such as SOD1, but also detected new ones that could be extremely useful for generating or confirming hypotheses and supporting new putative therapeutic candidates. We created metaDEA an R package that uses our method to integrate every kind of transcriptomic data and therefore could be used with other complex disorders, such as cancer. We also created a user-friendly web application to query Ensembl gene IDs and retrieve all the information of their differential expression across the datasets. Explanation: can we et studies on by have been previously reported proteins level cells networks regulatory key biological pathways involved signaling pathway may this many diseases similar findings TSgenetic one common regulators ASD risk factors were novel discovery important AD study 1 / how yet work it has well experimental evidence show at regulation levels between experiments using microarray high A functional transcriptional target DNA copy number loss effects often identified potential DAs non array dosage effect dal transcription normal mRNA gain regions increased they regulated over function ASAS further development when t3 '-RNA
Ongoing oscillations and evoked responses are two main types of neuronal activity obtained with diverse electrophysiological recordings (EEG / MEG / iEEG / LFP). Although typically studied separately, they might in fact be closely related. One possibility to unite them is to demonstrate that neuronal oscillations have non-zero mean which predicts that stimulus- or task-triggered amplitude modulation of oscillations can contribute to the generation of evoked responses. We validated this mechanism using computational modelling and analysis of a large EEG data set. With a biophysical model, we indeed demonstrated that intracellular currents in the neuron are asymmetric and, consequently, the mean of alpha oscillations is non-zero. To understand the effect that neuronal currents exert on oscillatory mean, we varied several biophysical and morphological properties of neurons in the network, such as voltage-gated channel densities, length of dendrites, and intensity of incoming stimuli. For a very large range of model parameters, we observed evidence for non-zero mean of oscillations. Complimentary, we analysed empirical rest EEG recordings of 90 participants (50 young, 40 elderly) and, with spatio-spectral decomposition, detected at least one spatially-filtred oscillatory component of non-zero mean alpha oscillations in 93% of participants. In order to explain a complex relationship between the dynamics of amplitude-envelope and corresponding baseline shifts, we performed additional simulations with simple oscillators coupled with different time delays. We demonstrated that the extent of spatial synchronisation may obscure macroscopic estimation of alpha rhythm modulation while leaving baseline shifts unchanged. Overall, our results predict that amplitude modulation of neural oscillations should at least partially explain the generation of evoked responses. Therefore, inference about changes in evoked responses with respect to cognitive conditions, age or neuropathologies should be constructed while taking into account oscillatory neuronal dynamics. Explanation: brain networks frequency theta 1 phase low frequencies information source current activities local et by power rhythms temporal cells firing rate electric field models cortical response from these waves during not yet their functional human experimental high gamma band resting state specific mechanisms present also known more physiological θ i population electrical coupling levels function out experiments associated cell membrane potential oscillation system well spiking active similar but when it could found experimentally induced an activation patterns ongoing recorded hippocampal place dependent cellular physiology important higher level events spontaneous novel findings were circuits hippocampus CA1 ipo occur stimulation studies
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV) is a tick-borne virus that can cause a hemorrhagic fever in humans, with a case fatality rate of up to 40%. Cases of CCHFV have been reported in Africa, Asia, and southern Europe; and recently, due to the expanding range of its vector, autochthonous cases have been reported in Spain. Although it was discovered over 70 years ago, our understanding of the pathogenesis of this virus remains limited. We used RNA-Seq in two human liver cell lines (HepG2 and Huh7) infected with CCHFV (strain IbAr10200), to examine kinetic changes in host expression and viral replication simultaneously at 1 and 3 days post infection. Through this, numerous host pathways were identified that were modulated by the virus including: antiviral response and endothelial cell leakage. Notably, the genes encoding DDX60, a cytosolic component of the RIG-I signalling pathway and OAS2 were both shown to be dysregulated. Interestingly, PTPRR was induced in Huh7 cells but not HepG2 cells. This has been associated with the TLR9 signalling cascade, and polymorphisms in TLR9 have been associated with poor outcomes in patients. Additionally, we performed whole-genome sequencing on CCHFV to assess viral diversity over time, and its relationship to the host response. As a result, we have demonstrated that through next-generation mRNA deep-sequencing it is possible to not only examine mRNA gene expression, but also to examine viral quasispecies and typing of the infecting strain. This demonstrates a proof-of-principle that CCHFV specimens can be analyzed to identify both the virus and host biomarkers that may have implications for prognosis. Explanation: disease severity viruses are more studies A The during infections model mice lethal animal models an immune responses proteins signaling activation inflammatory cytokines interferon type innate receptor protein known these inflammation cellular key role pathogen's severe blood circulation system as well mouse survival study data high risk factors which animals health laboratory important early death diseases clinical or critical Ipredicted novel non infectious people mortality levels In vivo previously unknown mechanism killing experimental all fatal other similar results from increased susceptibility C entry into development likely pathogenic Asuch highly mammalian hosts specific receptors function their control macrophages
Working memory (WM) deficits have been widely documented in schizophrenia (SZ), and almost all existing studies attributed the deficits to decreased capacity as compared to healthy control (HC) subjects. Recent developments in WM research suggest that other components, such as precision, also mediate behavioral performance. It remains unclear how different WM components jointly contribute to deficits in schizophrenia. We measured the performance of 60 SZ (31 females) and 61 HC (29 females) in a classical delay-estimation visual working memory (VWM) task and evaluated several influential computational models proposed in basic science of VWM to disentangle the effect of various memory components. We show that the model assuming variable precision (VP) across items and trials is the best model to explain the performance of both groups. According to the VP model, SZ exhibited abnormally larger variability of allocating memory resources rather than resources or capacity per se. Finally, individual differences in the resource allocation variability predicted variation of symptom severity in SZ, highlighting its functional relevance to schizophrenic pathology. This finding was further verified using distinct visual features and subject cohorts. These results provide an alternative view instead of the widely accepted decreased-capacity theory and highlight the key role of elevated resource allocation variability in generating atypical VWM behavior in schizophrenia. Our findings also shed new light on the utility of Bayesian observer models to characterize mechanisms of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience. Explanation: cognitive ability brain this patients with data we for information processing system neural network human cognition disorder related processes are people deficit these more knowledge impaired function impairments specific disease symptoms may be our understanding process normal individuals dysfunction their The not yet can which has evidence from abnormal study mechanism AD / by use experimental tasks impairment abilities level but work it known effects spatial attention executive mind damage systems when w1 complex thought disorders insight inaccuracy measure potential novel aspects they found many associated SD participants better able were well at group abnormalities distributed between important
The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) mediates viral entry via conformational changes associated with binding the cell surface receptor (CD4) and coreceptor (CCR5 / CXCR4), resulting in subsequent fusion of the viral and cellular membranes. While the gp120 Env surface subunit has been extensively studied for its role in viral entry and evasion of the host immune response, the gp41 transmembrane glycoprotein and its role in natural infection are less well characterized. Here, we identified a primary HIV-1 Env variant that consistently supports > 300% increased viral infectivity in the presence of autologous or heterologous HIV-positive plasma. However, in the absence of HIV-positive plasma, viruses with this Env exhibited reduced infectivity that was not due to decreased CD4 binding. Using Env chimeras and sequence analysis, we mapped this phenotype to a change Q563R, in the gp41 heptad repeat 1 (HR1) region. We demonstrate that Q563R reduces viral infection by disrupting formation of the gp41 six-helix bundle required for virus-cell membrane fusion. Intriguingly, antibodies that bind cluster I epitopes on gp41 overcome this inhibitory effect, restoring infectivity to wild-type levels. We further demonstrate that the Q563R change increases HIV-1 sensitivity to broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) targeting the gp41 membrane-proximal external region (MPER). In summary, we identify an HIV-1 Env variant with impaired infectivity whose Env functionality is restored through the binding of host antibodies. These data contribute to our understanding of gp41 residues involved in membrane fusion and identify a mechanism by which host factors can alleviate a viral defect. Explanation: V3 escape from R5 infected cells key mutations resistance variants V1 human antibody epitope conserved regions interactions X4 virions may important these critical but also have studies as high V4I5envelopes use anti target specific V2 monoclonal cross neutralization resistant strains more than previously found new therapeutic vaccine strategies used such study now results were approach development first non 2 potential VR0their targeted peptides blocking activity against two major disease relevant interaction between trimeric structure exposed fusinto trimer complex bound proteins at when using help receptors recognition N protein 3 different peptide inhibitors potent
Extensive amounts of multi-omics data and multiple cancer subtyping methods have been developed rapidly, and generate discrepant clustering results, which poses challenges for cancer molecular subtype research. Thus, the development of methods for the identification of cancer consensus molecular subtypes is essential. The lack of intuitive and easy-to-use analytical tools has posed a barrier. Here, we report on the development of the COnsensus Molecular SUbtype of Cancer (COMSUC) web server. With COMSUC, users can explore consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers based on eight clustering methods, five types of omics data from public reference datasets or users private data, and three consensus clustering methods. The web server provides interactive and modifiable visualization, and publishable output of analysis results. Researchers can also exchange consensus subtype results with collaborators via project IDs. COMSUC is now publicly and freely available with no login requirement at http: / / comsuc. bioinforai. tech / (IP address: http: / / 59. 110. 25. 27 /). For a video summary of this web server, see S1 Video and S1 File. Explanation: that gene expression cell by are not genes classification method 1 disease specific proteins network models our be clinical tumor cells et core We as result novel protein complex studies using In an s tumors these may different patients across tissue human breast large study many key molecules networks high level model identify known pathway signaling pathways such A new biological function important but same how often other form highly similar between one patient group were found common used This their analyses genome copy number somatic mutations DNA sequence information system could genomic regions genetic signature identified both frequently changes
Ticks (order: Ixodida) are a highly diverse and ecologically important group of ectoparasitic blood-feeding organisms. One such species, the seabird tick (Ixodes uriae), is widely distributed around the circumpolar regions of the northern and southern hemispheres. It has been suggested that Ix. uriae spread from the southern to the northern circumpolar region millions of years ago and has remained isolated in these regions ever since. Such a profound biographic subdivision provides a unique opportunity to determine whether viruses associated with ticks exhibit the same evolutionary patterns as their hosts. To test this, we collected Ix. uriae specimens near a Gentoo penguin (Pygoscelis papua) colony at Neko harbour, Antarctica, and from migratory birds the Razorbill (Alca torda) and the Common murre (Uria aalge) on Bonden island, northern Sweden. Through meta-transcriptomic next-generation sequencing we identified 16 RNA viruses, seven of which were novel. Notably, we detected the same species, Ronne virus, and two closely related species, Bonden virus and Piguzov virus, in both hemispheres indicating that there have been at least two cross-circumpolar dispersal events. Similarly, we identified viruses discovered previously in other locations several decades ago, including Gadgets Gully virus, Taggert virus and Okhotskiy virus. By identifying the same or closely related viruses in geographically disjunct sampling locations we provide evidence for virus dispersal within and between the circumpolar regions. In marked contrast, our phylogenetic analysis revealed no movement of the Ix. uriae tick hosts between the same locations. Combined, these data suggest that migratory birds are responsible for the movement of viruses at both local and global scales. Explanation: host range populations across areas an iceusid bat rouse by parasites transmission disease infection potential pathogens may be found many more studies genetic diversity but also known distribution can similar diseases human health risk landscape wide geographic inomA The not yet infections prevalence all viral zoonotic pathogen population cause bats i / parasite communities infecting mammals wildlife it likely I major humans? New world malaria control public used endemic nature conservation study sites where infected mosquitoes vector system We could interventions most people high spatial Africa Bet vine countries large scale
Meiotic recombination is an essential biological process that ensures faithful chromosome segregation and promotes parental allele shuffling. Tetrad analysis is a powerful approach to quantify the genetic makeups and recombination landscapes of meiotic products. Here we present RecombineX (https: / / github. com / yjx1217 / RecombineX), a generalized computational framework that automates the full workflow of marker identification, gamete genotyping, and tetrad-based recombination profiling based on any organism or genetic background with batch processing capability. Aside from conventional reference-based analysis, RecombineX can also perform analysis based on parental genome assemblies, which facilitates analyzing meiotic recombination landscapes in their native genomic contexts. Additional features such as copy number variation profiling and missing genotype inference further enhance downstream analysis. RecombineX also includes a dedicate module for simulating the genomes and reads of recombinant tetrads, which enables fine-tuned simulation-based hypothesis testing. This simulation module revealed the power and accuracy of RecombineX even when analyzing tetrads with very low sequencing depths (e. g., 1-2X). Tetrad sequencing data from the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii were further used to demonstrate the accuracy and robustness of RecombineX for organisms with both small and large genomes, manifesting RecombineX as an all-around one stop solution for future tetrad analysis. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangement events that were not noticed before, which exemplify the occasional genome instability triggered by meiosis. Explanation: DNA sequence assembly mapping methods are chromosomes resolution map We et The In many genes this cells model how may be A new experimental high level studies gene find results have important cell fission Schizosaccharomyces pombe chromosomal replication origin regions at these same yet more known using found previously s well conserved across human Y chromasiny novel crossover associated non i whole it will most crossing over called study highly required factors during homologous pairing between experiments models other often single sperm achi2 key information has similar but could recently discovered higher order chromatin structure involved
The APOBEC3 (A3) genes encode cytidine deaminase proteins with potent antiviral and anti-retroelement activity. This locus is characterized by duplication, recombination, and deletion events that gave rise to the seven A3s found in primates. These include three single deaminase domain A3s (A3A, A3C, and A3H) and four double deaminase domain A3s (A3B, A3D, A3F, and A3G). The most potent of the A3 proteins against HIV-1 is A3G. However, it is not clear if double deaminase domain A3s have a generalized functional advantage to restrict HIV-1. In order to test whether superior restriction factors could be created by genetically linking single A3 domains into synthetic double domains, we linked A3C and A3H single domains in novel combinations. We found that A3C / A3H double domains acquired enhanced antiviral activity that is at least as potent, if not better than, A3G. Although these synthetic double domain A3s package into budding virions more efficiently than their respective single domains, this does not fully explain their gain of antiviral potency. The antiviral activity is conferred both by cytidine-deaminase dependent and independent mechanisms, with the latter correlating to an increase in RNA binding affinity. T cell lines expressing this A3C-A3H super restriction factor are able to control replicating HIV-1ΔVif infection to similar levels as A3G. Together, these data show that novel combinations of A3 domains are capable of gaining potent antiviral activity to levels similar to the most potent genome-encoded A3s, via a primarily non-catalytic mechanism. Explanation: viral editing human cells virus replication can viruses for A DNA enzymes active mutations which function has important conserved residues protein from studies host cellular gene expression or As many other known resistance target on may previously C sites specific inhibitors antiretroviral drug use high potential therapeutic nucleoside reverse infected? Here key role small molecules targeting enzyme activities new one such critical disease treatment strategies used drugs inhibition ability they also inhibitor study our highly efficient retroviral life vTo now results were all resistant mutation within two predicted structure model regions containing when sequence variants associated 2 large
Variant allele frequencies (VAF) encode ongoing evolution and subclonal selection in growing tumours. However, existing methods that utilize VAF information for cancer evolutionary inference are compressive, slow, or incorrectly specify the underlying cancer evolutionary dynamics. Here, we provide a proof-of-principle synthetic supervised learning method, TumE, that integrates simulated models of cancer evolution with Bayesian neural networks, to infer ongoing selection in bulk-sequenced single tumour biopsies. Analyses in synthetic and patient tumours show that TumE significantly improves both accuracy and inference time per sample when detecting positive selection, deconvoluting selected subclonal populations, and estimating subclone frequency. Importantly, we show how transfer learning can leverage stored knowledge within TumE models for related evolutionary inference tasks substantially reducing data and computational time for further model development and providing a library of recyclable deep learning models for the cancer evolution community. This extensible framework provides a foundation and future directions for harnessing progressive computational methods for the benefit of cancer genomics and, in turn, the cancer patient. Explanation: is from have by which tumor cells our patients analysis cell population cancers studies on may be known disease somatic mutations genes evolve more these tumors this as well The We not results human genetic variant found variants similar clinical samples large also such an important new gene mutation patterns DNA sequencing whole genome many other has been study Cancer types using In sequence but same evolving mechanisms understanding novel findings evidence it could previously unknown changes genomic 1 / s present their were different subtypes develop clinically significant one specific treatment response predict survival outcomes therapy resistance mechanism use
African trypanosomes are parasites mainly transmitted by tsetse flies. They cause trypanosomiasis in humans (HAT) and animals (AAT). In Chad, HAT / AAT are endemic. This study investigates the diversity and distribution of trypanosomes in Mandoul, an isolated area where a tsetse control campaign is ongoing, and Maro, an area bordering the Central African Republic (CAR) where the control had not started. 717 human and 540 cattle blood samples were collected, and 177 tsetse flies were caught. Trypanosomal DNA was detected using PCR targeting internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) and glycosomal glyceraldehyde-3 phosphate dehydrogenase (gGAPDH), followed by amplicon sequencing. Trypanosomal DNA was identified in 14 human samples, 227 cattle samples, and in tsetse. Besides T. b. gambiense, T. congolense was detected in human in Maro. In Mandoul, DNA from an unknown Trypanosoma sp. -129-H was detected in a human with a history of a cured HAT infection and persisting symptoms. In cattle and tsetse samples from Maro, T. godfreyi and T. grayi were detected besides the known animal pathogens, in addition to T. theileri (in cattle) and T. simiae (in tsetse). Furthermore, in Maro, evidence for additional unknown trypanosomes was obtained in tsetse. In contrast, in the Mandoul area, only T. theileri, T. simiae, and T. vivax DNA was identified in cattle. Genetic diversity was most prominent in T. vivax and T. theileri. Tsetse control activities in Mandoul reduced the tsetse population and thus the pathogenic parasites. Nevertheless, T. theileri, T. vivax, and T. simiae are frequent in cattle suggesting transmission by other insect vectors. In contrast, in Maro, transhumance to / from Central African Republic and no tsetse control may have led to the high diversity and frequency of trypanosomes observed including HAT / AAT pathogenic species. Active HAT infections stress the need to enforce monitoring and control campaigns. Additionally, the diverse trypanosome species in humans and cattle indicate the necessity to investigate the infectivity of the unknown trypanosomes regarding their zoonotic potential. Finally, this study should be widened to other trypanosome hosts to capture the whole diversity of circulating trypanosomes. Explanation: disease that parasite populations on fly vector malaria treatment health interventions as new we can used tools detection studies The these communities intervention strategies against livestock diseases? data survey more than previously results parasiti people sleeping bSal countries prevalence at important parasitic inktreated sites brucei Sudan Africa further our knowledge has found molecular Ugor Chagas spp diagnostic methods use it also such years information when will S infected dogs s man's IdSIT Uganda findings show surveys community level drug resistance genetic markers gene different areas between here system surveillance could
Hybridization is a fascinating evolutionary phenomenon that raises the question of how species maintain their integrity. Inter-species hybridization occurs between certain Schistosoma species that can cause important public health and veterinary issues. In particular hybrids between Schistosoma haematobium and S. bovis associated with humans and animals respectively are frequently identified in Africa. Recent genomic evidence indicates that some S. haematobium populations show signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. Here, we conducted a genomic comparative study and investigated the genomic relationships between S. haematobium, S. bovis and their hybrids using 19 isolates originating from a wide geographical range over Africa, including samples initially classified as S. haematobium (n = 11), S. bovis (n = 6) and S. haematobium x S. bovis hybrids (n = 2). Based on a whole genomic sequencing approach, we developed 56, 181 SNPs that allowed a clear differentiation of S. bovis isolates from a genomic cluster including all S. haematobium isolates and a natural S. haematobium-bovis hybrid. All the isolates from the S. haematobium cluster except the isolate from Madagascar harbored signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. Isolates from Corsica, Mali and Egypt harbored the S. bovis-like Invadolysin gene, an introgressed tract that has been previously detected in some introgressed S. haematobium populations from Niger. Together our results highlight the fact that introgression from S. bovis is widespread across S. haematobium and that the observed introgression is unidirectional. Explanation: to parasite genetic by genome regions genes for have this cattle schistus parasites studies DNA sequence ble The may disease transmission human blood schistosomiasis control infection these were population at which found new host snail intermediate snails invasion resistance malaria vivax parasitic strains known also cross falciparum genomes areas within A more than We present data similar it s different region into be infections Bother such This same or where endemic people non infected Sb al / there was findings many used Plasmodium knowB against one specific IAs further those strain diversity level not yet mapping
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) vaccines have not been successful in clinical trials. Dimeric IgA (dIgA) in the form of secretory IgA is the most abundant antibody class in mucosal tissues, making dIgA a prime candidate for potential HIV vaccines. We coupled Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging and fluorescent microscopy of 64Cu-labeled, photoactivatable-GFP HIV (PA-GFP-BaL) and fluorescently labeled dIgA to determine how dIgA antibodies influence virus interaction with mucosal barriers and viral penetration in colorectal tissue. Our results show that HIV virions rapidly disseminate throughout the colon two hours after exposure. The presence of dIgA resulted in an increase in virions and penetration depth in the transverse colon. Moreover, virions were found in the mesenteric lymph nodes two hours after viral exposure, and the presence of dIgA led to an increase in virions in mesenteric lymph nodes. Taken together, these technologies enable in vivo and in situ visualization of antibody-virus interactions and detailed investigations of early events in HIV infection. Explanation: mice intestinal mucosa immune cells entry by are we can be infected human intestine model gut this studies on data from which has specific binding A new mouse models study In large also our use high levels proteins enter into small intestines targeting Das well cell receptors bind viruses infections more transport across blood plasma or at bacteria uptake / it may via their As targeted delivery anti tIgG Abs cross 1 used therapeutic vaccine development approach could target such B et host immunity against protein antigens novel treatment strategies This monoclonal Ig T cellular receptor present important
Understanding the relationships between biological processes is paramount to unravel pathophysiological mechanisms. These relationships can be modeled with Transfer Functions (TFs), with no need of a priori hypotheses as to the shape of the transfer function. Here we present Iliski, a software dedicated to TFs computation between two signals. It includes different pre-treatment routines and TF computation processes: deconvolution, deterministic and non-deterministic optimization algorithms that are adapted to disparate datasets. We apply Iliski to data on neurovascular coupling, an ensemble of cellular mechanisms that link neuronal activity to local changes of blood flow, highlighting the software benefits and caveats in the computation and evaluation of TFs. We also propose a workflow that will help users to choose the best computation according to the dataset. Iliski is available under the open-source license CC BY 4. 0 on GitHub (https: / / github. com / alike-aydin / Iliski) and can be used on the most common operating systems, either within the MATLAB environment, or as a standalone application. Explanation: for model cell models analysis methods by have not complex network functional brain networks large studies The et al 1 s task human vascular regulatory information system i well experimental arterial endothelial cells from this process our results study In Blood tuse disease physiology mechanism regulation einvivo tissue level may arteries response time signal which has method development novel knowledge these vessel specific gene expression across signaling pathways such important genes causal modeling how were found their key role unknown molecular interactions many other known proteins involved vasculature diseases using This new ability predict vessels effect more
If a mother contracts the Zika Virus before or during pregnancy, then there is a risk of the child developing Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS). An infant can then experience problems feeding due to the specific physical and developmental consequences of Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS), such as microcephaly, dysphagia and an increased likelihood of choking. This qualitative evidence synthesis accesses direct and indirect evidence to inform WHO infant feeding guidelines. We conducted a qualitative evidence synthesis of the values and preferences of relevant stakeholders (e. g. pregnant women, mothers, family members and health practitioners) concerning infant (0 2 years) feeding in the presence of: 1) CZS (the direct evidence); 2) severe disability and nonprogressive, chronic encephalopathies (indirect evidence), which present with similar problems. Authors findings were extracted, synthesised using thematic synthesis techniques, and confidence in the findings were assessed using GRADE-CERQual. Six CZS-specific studies (all from Brazil) were included in the direct evidence, with a further eight indirect studies reporting feeding difficulties in infants with severe disability and nonprogressive, chronic encephalopathies. Included studies highlighted: breast-feeding represented the preference for all mothers in the studies in both reviews, and the inability to do so affected bonding between parents and child, and generated fear and anxiety relating to feeding choices, especially around the risks of choking and swallowing; the perception that health professionals were often unable to offer appropriate advice; the potential value of training; and a strong desire to achieve individual maternal autonomy in infant feeding decisions. Confidence in most findings ranged from low to moderate. The evidence base has limitations, but consistently reported that parents of children with feeding difficulties due to Congenital Zika Syndrome, or similar, need information, advice and counselling, and substantial emotional support. Parents perceive that these needs are often neither recognised nor satisfied; optimal feeding and support strategies for this population have not yet been identified. Explanation: more knowledge on when decision makers interventions impact food important quality care by outcomes burden caregivers' families well time their breastfeeding rates be nutrition intervention study results early life at less than may benefits understanding how we improve parenting education level data high prevalence significant other concerns about use community our research questions development it was human milk exposure effects body water many associated higher infection severity babies who should provide safe eating foods / even if they what? In could better prevention nutritional practices reduce exposed adverse effect levels also known effective control kABSTRACT funder
Two-component, self-assembling nanoparticles represent a versatile platform for multivalent presentation of viral antigens. Computational design of protein nanoparticles with differing sizes and geometries enables combination with antigens of choice to test novel multimerization concepts in immunization strategies where the goal is to improve the induction and maturation of neutralizing antibody lineages. Here, we describe detailed antigenic, structural, and functional characterization of computationally designed tetrahedral, octahedral, and icosahedral nanoparticle immunogens displaying trimeric HIV envelope glycoprotein (Env) ectodomains. Env trimers, based on subtype A (BG505) or consensus group M (ConM) sequences and engineered with SOSIP stabilizing mutations, were fused to an underlying trimeric building block of each nanoparticle. Initial screening yielded one icosahedral and two tetrahedral nanoparticle candidates, capable of presenting twenty or four copies of the Env trimer. A number of analyses, including detailed structural characterization by cryo-EM, demonstrated that the nanoparticle immunogens possessed the intended structural and antigenic properties. When the immunogenicity of ConM-SOSIP trimers presented on a two-component tetrahedral nanoparticle or as soluble proteins were compared in rabbits, the two immunogens elicited similar serum antibody binding titers against the trimer component. Neutralizing antibody titers were slightly elevated in the animals given the nanoparticle immunogen and were initially more focused to the trimer apex. Altogether, our findings indicate that tetrahedral nanoparticles can be successfully applied for presentation of HIV Env trimer immunogens; however, the optimal implementation to different immunization strategies remains to be determined. Explanation: virus entry CD4 T cell surface are immune antibodies vaccine development potential anti structure which have approach use high induced specific antigen targeting ability this their vaccines may present epitopes from these particles assembly many important viruses infection broadly human immunodeficiency type B cells immunity potent such studies We vaccination approaches new data The also results show when SX model how at virions capsid pentavalent 1 / VLPs display Iso most effective used Vif not found gp41 subunit interactions surfaces virion fusion target gp120 into epitope complexes major fold information models 2 key role shape exposed
Pseudorabies virus (PRV) has evolved various immune evasion mechanisms that target host antiviral immune responses. However, it is unclear whether and how PRV encoded proteins modulate the cGAS-STING axis for immune evasion. Here, we show that PRV tegument protein UL13 inhibits STING-mediated antiviral signaling via regulation of STING stability. Mechanistically, UL13 interacts with the CDN domain of STING and recruits the E3 ligase RING-finger protein 5 (RNF5) to promote K27- / K29-linked ubiquitination and degradation of STING. Consequently, deficiency of RNF5 enhances host antiviral immune responses triggered by PRV infection. In addition, mutant PRV lacking UL13 impaired in antagonism of STING-mediated production of type I IFNs and shows attenuated pathogenicity in mice. Our findings suggest that PRV UL13 functions as an antagonist of IFN signaling via a novel mechanism by targeting STING to persistently evade host antiviral responses. Explanation: viral DNA HSV infected cells this UIviruses US1 gene expression are or function cell entry herpes simplex replication U RNA We known these genes have 2 RORFon which also other important cellular factors S our studies The block infections immunity against herpesvirus A response kinase phosphorylation activation IRG interferon regulatory pathways innate human herpesviruses associated kinases signal their two key conserved pathogen induced VZV ICK1 control from ability found many more critical work unique can be used specific not predicted new identified pathway sh3 disease resistance hosts previously study provide us different
Arthropod-borne viruses (arboviruses) require replication across a wide range of temperatures to perpetuate. While vertebrate hosts tend to maintain temperatures of approximately 37 ° C 40 ° C, arthropods are subject to ambient temperatures which can have a daily fluctuation of > 10 ° C. Temperatures impact vector competence, extrinsic incubation period, and mosquito survival unimodally, with optimal conditions occurring at some intermediate temperature. In addition, the mean and range of daily temperature fluctuations influence arbovirus perpetuation and vector competence. The impact of temperature on arbovirus genetic diversity during systemic mosquito infection, however, is poorly understood. Therefore, we determined how constant extrinsic incubation temperatures of 25 ° C, 28 ° C, 32 ° C, and 35 ° C control Zika virus (ZIKV) vector competence and population dynamics within Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes. We also examined fluctuating temperatures which better mimic field conditions in the tropics. We found that vector competence varied in a unimodal manner for constant temperatures peaking between 28 ° C and 32 ° C for both Aedes species. Transmission peaked at 10 days post-infection for Aedes aegypti and 14 days for Aedes albopictus. Conversely, fluctuating temperature decreased vector competence. Using RNA-seq to characterize ZIKV population structure, we identified that temperature alters the selective environment in unexpected ways. During mosquito infection, constant temperatures more often elicited positive selection whereas fluctuating temperatures led to strong purifying selection in both Aedes species. These findings demonstrate that temperature has multiple impacts on ZIKV biology, including major effects on the selective environment within mosquitoes. Explanation: transmission disease risk human dengue fever Ae. biting arthropod host populations exposure viral vectors from where this as high or not known factors temperate nature by natural environmental may development an important tropical malaria blood circulation years many such DENV infections model studies our previously data these year seasonal chioinlaboratory 1 /? -increasing potential but season wywell different climate predicted through seasons when results were higher than be low endemic areas yet study environments under A flavis epidemics humans infectious diseases infected their epidemiological models all time weather patterns observed could increase
Olfactory integration is important for survival in a natural habitat. However, how the nervous system processes signals of two odorants present simultaneously to generate a coherent behavioral response is poorly understood. Here, we characterize circuit basis for a form of olfactory integration in Caenorhabditis elegans. We find that the presence of a repulsive odorant, 2-nonanone, that signals threat strongly blocks the attraction of other odorants, such as isoamyl alcohol (IAA) or benzaldehyde, that signal food. Using a forward genetic screen, we found that genes known to regulate the structure and function of sensory neurons, osm-5 and osm-1, played a critical role in the integration process. Loss of these genes mildly reduces the response to the repellent 2-nonanone and disrupts the integration effect. Restoring the function of OSM-5 in either AWB or ASH, two sensory neurons known to mediate 2-nonanone-evoked avoidance, is sufficient to rescue. Sensory neurons AWB and downstream interneurons AVA, AIB, RIM that play critical roles in olfactory sensorimotor response are able to process signals generated by 2-nonanone or IAA or the mixture of the two odorants and contribute to the integration. Thus, our results identify redundant neural circuits that regulate the robust effect of a repulsive odorant to block responses to attractive odorants and uncover the neuronal and cellular basis for this complex olfactory task. Explanation: an information processing cells signaling pathways behavior activity with odor stimuli A their flies brain network behaviors al pheromone receptors neuron specific different molecules have The odors chemical from receptor expression et more fruit volatile ant detection olfaction systems fly species essential cell use molecular mechanisms can be animals ability they also identified novel chemicals effects on In previously studies Drosophila aversive odus not used model bacteria conserved ans when same but may one show which has been study As well interactions between animal respond similar compounds inhibitory synaptic GABA / s activation thus; data analysis many
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are protein-loaded nano-scaled particles that are extracellularly released by eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Parasite s EVs manipulate the immune system, making them probable next-generation vaccines. Schistosomal EVs carry different proteins of promising immunizing potentials. For evaluating the immune-protective role of Schistosoma mansoni (S. mansoni) egg-derived EVs against murine schistosomiasis, EVs were isolated from cultured S. mansoni eggs by progressive sequential cooling ultra-centrifugation technique. Isolated EVs were structurally identified using transmission electron microscope and their protein was quantified by Lowry s technique. Experimental mice were subcutaneously immunized with three doses of 20 μg EVs (with or without alum adjuvant); every two weeks, then were challenged with S. mansoni cercariae two weeks after the last immunizing dose. Six weeks post infection, mice were sacrificed for vaccine candidate assessment. EVs protective efficacy was evaluated through parasitological, histopathological, and immunological parameters. Results showed significant reduction of tegumentally deranged adult worms, hepatic and intestinal egg counts reduction by 46. 58%, 93. 14% and 93. 17% respectively, accompanied by remarkable amelioration of sizes, numbers and histopathology of hepatic granulomata mediated by high interferon gamma (IFN γ) and antibody level. Using sera from vaccinated mice, the molecular weight of EVs protein components targeted by the antibody produced was recognized by western immunoblot. Results revealed two bands of ~ 14 KDa and ~ 21 KDa, proving that EVs are able to stimulate specific antibodies response. In conclusion, the present study highlighted the role of S. mansoni-egg derived EVs as a potential vaccine candidate against murine schistosomiasis mansoni. Explanation: in schistosome host disease is infected IL cytokines induced immunity parasite development we can vaccination antigens used anti ES this an these EV associated studies worm control eparasitic our have important parasites levels during Eon may be involved E cell production / they known mechanisms eosinophils T cells cytokine 1 such Echinococcus fibrosis liver pathology skin stage helminth infections model A new therapeutic effects treatment The more understanding pathogenesis found use other well studied mouse models protection also treated group at which We previously developed highly effective antigen ESamova blood soluble EgAit's
Mycetoma is considered a neglected tropical disease globally. However, data on its burden and the associated complications in Uganda are limited. Hence we aimed to estimate its burden in Uganda. Firstly, a systematic PubMed search for all studies of any design on mycetoma in Uganda without restriction to the year of publication was conducted. A retrospective review of all the biopsy reports at the Pathology Reference Laboratory, Department of Pathology, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda from January 1950 to September 2019 was conducted to identify any reports on mycetoma histological diagnosis. During the 70-years study period, 30 cases were identified by the literature review, with 249 additional cases identified by review of biopsy reports (total of 279 cases). The average incidence was estimated at 0. 32 / 100, 000 persons and prevalence of 8. 32 / 100, 000 persons per decade. However, there was a general decline in the number of cases detected recently. Males and the age group of 21 30 years were the most affected by mycetoma in Uganda, and only 7% of the cases were children. The highest number of cases was recorded from Kampala (n = 30) and Jinja (n = 19) districts. The majority of the cases (68%) were referred from surgical units. The foot was the most affected part of the body (72%). Ten per cent of the cases had bone involvement of which 58% required amputation. Fungi were the most common causative agents (89%) followed by Nocardia species (5%) and Actinomycetes (4%). The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low (45%) with a very large differential diagnosis. Mycetoma is a relatively rare disease in Uganda, mostly caused by fungi, and there is a big gap in data and epidemiological studies. More systematic studies are warranted to define the true burden of mycetoma in Uganda. Explanation: health system that endemic skin lesions patients et infection fungal infections cause not found countries 1 case treatment this work level more as high evidence an research findings have population new knowledge but community Ethiopia public hospital microscopy tour results reported ediseases major important tuberculosis mortality Africa further information such often diagnostic tools used resources country these can be setting epidemiology In resource two key people arisk factors known; human African other now also many causes studied sites elephear related finding their occur or Eitemm result published first time global need control
The aim of Malaysia to eliminate malaria nationwide by 2020 seems need to be prolonged. Whilst Malaysia has successfully eliminated human malaria transmission, simian malaria parasites such as Plasmodium knowlesi, P. cynomolgi, P. inui and P. cynomolgi are the emerging cause of malaria in humans. The epidemiological study of simian malaria in primates provides useful information in identifying the risk of human-macaques Plasmodium infection. This study was performed to gather all available data in terms of simian malaria epidemiology study among macaques in Malaysia over the last two decades. This systematic review was conducted according to the PRISMA guidelines to select appropriate articles as references. Data searches were performed through international databases such as Google Scholar, PubMed, CrossRef, Scopus, Web of Science and Science Direct for original articles published from 2000 until 2021. The review identified seven simian malaria epidemiology studies in Malaysia over the 20-year study period. Most studies were conducted in Peninsular Malaysia (5 / 7; 71%) followed by East Malaysia (2 / 7; 29%). All studies showed positive detection of Plasmodium parasites in macaques. The most prevalent Plasmodium species in macaques was P. inui (49. 27%) and the least prevalent was P. fieldi (4. 76%). The prevalence of simian malaria was higher in East Malaysia compared to Peninsular Malaysia. The mono, dual and triple infection types were the most common among macaques. The non-human primates like macaques are the reservoir of simian plasmodium in Malaysia. Hence, the study of host epidemiology is an important insight to public health management as there is a high occurrence of simian malaria in Malaysia. The right measurement can be taken as well to prevent the transmission of simian malaria from macaques to humans. Explanation: that monkeys disease control on monkey have used macaque we with parasite Thailand blood Uguse endemic countries this also other than which out research findings In Uganda falciparum rhesus infected more animal model infections may not found owl Macaca mulsifman 1 at country owned primate it their these animals but when people African new or Thai wild life A major Africa areas where results large scale zoonotic vector Anopheles bour ape diseases vivax Sudan HIV Sinto forest area between years surveillance system known key interventions effective prevention Iknowledge thus many similar situation after
Latent Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is strongly associated with several malignancies, including B-cell lymphomas and epithelial tumors. EBNA1 is a key antigen expressed in all EBV-associated tumors during latency that is required for maintenance of the EBV episome DNA and the regulation of viral gene transcription. However, the mechanism utilized by EBV to maintain latent infection at the levels of posttranslational regulation remains largely unclear. Here, we report that EBNA1 contains two SUMO-interacting motifs (SIM2 and SIM3), and mutation of SIM2, but not SIM3, dramatically disrupts the EBNA1 dimerization, while SIM3 contributes to the polySUMO2 modification of EBNA1 at lysine 477 in vitro. Proteomic and immunoprecipitation analyses further reveal that the SIM3 motif is required for the EBNA1-mediated inhibitory effects on SUMO2-modified STUB1, SUMO2-mediated degradation of USP7, and SUMO1-modified KAP1. Deletion of the EBNASIM motif leads to functional loss of both EBNA1-mediated viral episome maintenance and lytic gene silencing. Importantly, hypoxic stress induces the SUMO2 modification of EBNA1, and in turn the dissociation of EBNA1 with STUB1, KAP1 and USP7 to increase the SUMO1 modification of both STUB1 and KAP1 for reactivation of lytic replication. Therefore, the EBNA1SIM motif plays an essential role in EBV latency and is a potential therapeutic target against EBV-associated cancers. Explanation: cells are proteins this which viruses nuclear EB can be expression host cellular TRIMBU protein A The as cancer critical Yor function EB1 activation IE2 ubiquitin E3 ubiquitination PML / EBNA binding sites phosphorylation ULK1 KSHV Kaposi's US2 interaction HIV infected human active also known have important factors targeting UBsmall ubiquitindependent post transcriptional regulatory NF activity their In many other We found use these may from our studies association between interactions Zubi t non tumor induced Vimit control Show high level BZLMwAs such
Improving our understanding of the genes regulating grain yield can contribute to the development of more productive wheat varieties. Previously, a highly significant QTL affecting spikelet number per spike (SNS), grain number per spike (GNS) and grain yield was detected on chromosome arm 7AL in multiple genome-wide association studies. Using a high-resolution genetic map, we established that the A-genome homeolog of WHEAT ORTHOLOG OF APO1 (WAPO-A1) was a leading candidate gene for this QTL. Using mutants and transgenic plants, we demonstrate in this study that WAPO-A1 is the causal gene underpinning this QTL. Loss-of-function mutants wapo-A1 and wapo-B1 showed reduced SNS in tetraploid wheat, and the effect was exacerbated in wapo1 combining both mutations. By contrast, spikes of transgenic wheat plants carrying extra copies of WAPO-A1 driven by its native promoter had higher SNS, a more compact spike apical region and a smaller terminal spikelet than the wild type. Taken together, these results indicate that WAPO1 affects SNS by regulating the timing of terminal spikelet formation. Both transgenic and wapo1 mutant plants showed a wide range of floral abnormalities, indicating additional roles of WAPO1 on wheat floral development. Previously, we found three widespread haplotypes in the QTL region (H1, H2 and H3), each associated with particular WAPO-A1 alleles. Results from this and our previous study show that the WAPO-A1 allele in the H1 haplotype (115-bp deletion in the promoter) is expressed at significantly lower levels in the developing spikes than the alleles in the H2 and H3 haplotypes, resulting in reduced SNS. Field experiments also showed that the H2 haplotype is associated with the strongest effects in increasing SNS and GNS (H2 > H3 > H1). The H2 haplotype is already present in most modern common wheat varieties but is rare in durum wheat, where it might be particularly useful to improve grain yield. Explanation: new large one important loci are many have an may or NSTYkey factors In previously known as major trait QTLs not used which We identified genomic DNA SNP markers linked barley lines specific expression rice 2 novel Hse atsuch were related molecular mechanism explain how different regions derived SNPs non functional allelic sequence variation has some help / will use information provide potential regulatory cell model their This two agri disease resistance low Slater essential research traits locus control main beneficial small protein same mechanisms through other they nal data linkage mapping approach
Scrub typhus is an emerging vector-borne zoonosis, caused by Orientia spp. and transmitted by larvae of trombiculid mites, called chiggers. It mainly occurs within a region of the Asia-Pacific called the tsutsugamushi triangle, where rodents are known as the most relevant hosts for the trombiculid vector. However, the reservoir (s) and vector (s) of the scrub typhus outside Asia-Pacific are unknown. The disease has recently been discovered on and is considered endemic for Chiloé Island in southern Chile. The aim of the present work was to detect and determine the prevalence of chiggers on different rodent species captured in probable sites for the transmission of orientiae responsible for scrub typhus on Chiloé Island in southern Chile and to molecularly examine collected chiggers for the presence of Orientia DNA. During the austral summer 2018, rodents were live-trapped in six sites and examined for chigger infestation. All study sites were rural areas on Chiloé Island, previously identified as probable localities where human cases acquired the scrub typhus. During a total of 4, 713 trap-nights, 244 rodents of seven species were captured: the most abundant was Abrothrix olivacea. Chiggers were detected on all seven rodent species with a 55% prevalence rate. Chiggers showed low host specificity and varied according to site specific host abundance. Three genera of trombiculids were identified. Herpetacarus was the most abundant genus (93%), prevalent in five of the six sites. Infestation rates showed site specific differences, which were statistically significant using a GLM model with binomial errors. Molecular analyses proved that 21 of 133 (15. 8%) mite pools were positive for Orientia species, all of them belonged to the genus Herpetacarus. This study firstly reports the presence of different rodent-associated chigger mites positive for Orientia sp., in a region endemic for scrub typhus in southern Chile. Herpetacarus and two other genera of mites were found with high infestation rates of rodents in sites previously identified as probable exposure of scrub typhus cases. A substantial percentage of mite pools were positive for Orientia DNA, suggesting that chigger mites serve as vectors and reservoirs of this emerging zoonosis in South America. Explanation: O infection humans health risk from we can be? infections area have more than years studies results confirmed our detection hy parasite distribution system used o similar diseases spman's these may or regions zoonotic lice infest1 In Thailand kat dogs fleticytheir rats eomskin lesions; when people S infected mice Oicit also animals models between but patients clinical case control Irickettbacteria findings many parasites foci potential such important data they same community level both rat population year I / 2 common cause residents Tos
During the 2015 2017 Zika epidemic, dengue and chikungunya two other viral diseases with the same vector as Zika were also in circulation. Clinical presentation of these diseases can vary from person to person in terms of symptoms and severity, making it difficult to differentially diagnose them. Under these circumstances, it is possible that numerous cases of Zika could have been misdiagnosed as dengue or chikungunya, or vice versa. Given the importance of surveillance data for informing epidemiological analyses, our aim was to quantify the potential extent of misdiagnosis during this epidemic. Using basic principles of probability and empirical estimates of diagnostic sensitivity and specificity, we generated revised estimates of reported cases of Zika that accounted for the accuracy of diagnoses made on the basis of clinical presentation with or without laboratory confirmation. Applying this method to weekly reported case data from 43 countries throughout Latin America and the Caribbean, we estimated that 944, 700 (95% CrI: 884, 900 996, 400) Zika cases occurred when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using molecular methods versus 608, 400 (95% CrI: 442, 000 821, 800) Zika cases that occurred when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using serological methods. Our results imply that misdiagnosis was more common in countries with proportionally higher reported cases of dengue and chikungunya, such as Brazil. Given that Zika, dengue, and chikungunya appear likely to co-circulate in the Americas and elsewhere for years to come, our methodology has the potential to enhance the interpretation of passive surveillance data for these diseases going forward. Likewise, our methodology could also be used to help resolve transmission dynamics of other co-circulating diseases with similarities in symptomatology and potential for misdiagnosis. Explanation: a health system diagnosis suspected disease outbreak public infection risk human are studies information systems an endemic mosquito Aedes aegypti mosquitoes detection virus epidemics unknown not? The epidemiology may present infections prevalence tropical arboviruses 1 / A previously inblood transmitted by vectors distribution humans fever patients incidence country study areas where community severe acute febrile illness outbreaks associated knowledge questions important findings similar ZIKV infected people but often time between malaria ahow undiagnosed they known DENV global first exposure Ae. knows population most regions their epidemiologic models analysis use then model into which network key
HBV is an enveloped DNA virus that replicates its DNA genome via reverse transcription of a pregenomic (pg) RNA intermediate in hepatocytes. Interestingly, HBV RNA can be detected in virus-like particles in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patient serum and has been utilized as a biomarker for intrahepatic cccDNA activity in treated patients. However, the biogenesis and molecular characteristics of serum HBV RNA remain to be fully defined. In this study, we found that the encapsidated serum HBV RNA predominately consists of pgRNA, which are detergent- and ribonuclease-resistant. Through blocking HBV DNA replication without affecting pgRNA encapsidation by using the priming-defective HBV mutant Y63D or 3TC treatment, we demonstrated that the cell culture supernatant contains a large amount of pgRNA-containing nonenveloped capsids and a minor population of pgRNA-containing virions. The formation of pgRNA-virion requires both capsid assembly and viral envelope proteins, which can be inhibited by capsid assembly modulators and an envelope knockout mutant, respectively. Furthermore, the pgRNA-virion utilizes the multivesicular body pathway for egress, in a similar way as DNA-virion morphogenesis. Northern blotting, RT-PCR, and 3 RACE assays revealed that serum / supernatant HBV pgRNA are mainly spliced and devoid of the 3 -terminal sequences. Furthermore, pgRNA-virion collected from cells treated with a reversible HBV priming inhibitor L-FMAU was unable to establish infection in HepG2-NTCP cells. In summary, serum HBV RNA is secreted in noninfectious virion-like particle as spliced and poly (A) -free pgRNA. Our study will shed light on the molecular biology of serum HBV RNA in HBV life cycle, and aid the development of serum HBV RNA as a novel biomarker for CHB diagnosis and treatment prognosis. Explanation: liver disease host factors human small HIV 1 entry into infected model HCV viruses production? data have mechanism cellular protein expression may pre S gene other structure how key role anti drug resistance mutations associated antiviral therapy studies were previously known these during infections high levels Ball but more our understanding post bat core binding inhibitors' s well specific nucleprecostructural models through such important early non expressed nuclear processing their -not function intracellular mature form structures before new information also used clinical therapeutic strategies developed highly sensitive HBc sera infectivity after drugs
Tuberculosis caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is a significant public health concern, exacerbated by the emergence of drug-resistant TB. To combat the host s dynamic environment, Mtb encodes multiple DNA repair enzymes that play a critical role in maintaining genomic integrity. Mtb possesses a GC-rich genome, rendering it highly susceptible to cytosine deaminations, resulting in the occurrence of uracils in the DNA. UDGs encoded by ung and udgB initiate the repair; hence we investigated the biological impact of deleting UDGs in the adaptation of pathogen. We generated gene replacement mutants of uracil DNA glycosylases, individually (RvΔung, RvΔudgB) or together (RvΔdKO). The double KO mutant, RvΔdKO exhibited remarkably higher spontaneous mutation rate, in the presence of antibiotics. Interestingly, RvΔdKO showed higher survival rates in guinea pigs and accumulated large number of SNPs as revealed by whole-genome sequence analysis. Competition assays revealed the superior fitness of RvΔdKO over Rv, both in ex vivo and in vivo conditions. We propose that compromised DNA repair results in the accumulation of mutations, and a subset of these drives adaptation in the host. Importantly, this property allowed us to utilize RvΔdKO for the facile identification of drug targets. Explanation: resistance mechanisms Don are genes with which can cells ability bacterial strains have an important proteins from found their In response lethal bacteria studies A new pathways human disease susceptibility genetic variants rmay G base damage guanine nucleotide binding protein cell killing associated cancer treatment drugs used gpredicted active / not known data our mechanism against has evolved Genzyme residues mutagenesis winfection high sensitivity such also be more likely novel identified previously study This two vofsimilar patients lung cancers risk single exposed development could et humans one increased vulnerability non functional at defects
The biological master clock, suprachiasmatic nucleus (of rat and mouse), is composed of ~ 10, 000 clock cells which are heterogeneous with respect to their circadian periods. Despite this inhomogeneity, an intact SCN maintains a very good degree of circadian phase (time) coherence which is vital for sustaining various circadian rhythmic activities, and it is supposedly achieved by not just one but a few different cell-to-cell coupling mechanisms, among which action potential (AP) -mediated connectivity is known to be essential. But, due to technical difficulties and limitations in experiments, so far very little information is available about the morphology of the connectivity at a cellular scale. Building upon this limited amount of information, here we exhaustively and systematically explore a large pool (~ 25, 000) of various network morphologies to come up with some plausible network features of SCN networks. All candidates under consideration reflect an experimentally obtained indegree distribution as well as a physical range distribution of afferent clock cells. Then, importantly, with a set of multitude criteria based on the properties of SCN circadian phase waves in extrinsically perturbed as well as in their natural states, we select out appropriate model networks: Some important measures are, 1) level of phase dispersal and direction of wave propagation, 2) phase-resetting ability of the model networks subject to external circadian forcing, and 3) decay rate of perturbation induced phase-singularities. The successful, realistic networks have several common features: 1) indegree and outdegree should have a positive correlation; 2) the cells in the SCN ventrolateral region (core) have a much larger total degree than that of the dorsal medial region (shell); 3) The number of intra-core edges is about 7. 5 times that of intra-shell edges; and 4) the distance probability density function for the afferent connections fits well to a beta function. We believe that these newly identified network features would be a useful guide for future explorations on the very much unknown AP-mediated clock cell connectome within the SCN. Explanation: entrainment rhythms activity data from light entrs neurons self brain circuit can et al results system our experimental many more mechanism firing frequency oscillators models such found previously period control molecular signaling pathways how may input / or circuits wiring structure also key functional role neuronal electrical current systems yet complex two most rhythm output dynamics has been shown neural process they same endogenous clocks' A single oscillator coupled nature even other day sleep timing regulation physiology thus animals central nervous tissue all internal daily behavior study when called critical state neuron observed behaviors were fundamental knowledge
To characterize the functional role of the left-ventral occipito-temporal cortex (lvOT) during reading in a quantitatively explicit and testable manner, we propose the lexical categorization model (LCM). The LCM assumes that lvOT optimizes linguistic processing by allowing fast meaning access when words are familiar and filtering out orthographic strings without meaning. The LCM successfully simulates benchmark results from functional brain imaging described in the literature. In a second evaluation, we empirically demonstrate that quantitative LCM simulations predict lvOT activation better than alternative models across three functional magnetic resonance imaging studies. We found that word-likeness, assumed as input into a lexical categorization process, is represented posteriorly to lvOT, whereas a dichotomous word / non-word output of the LCM could be localized to the downstream frontal brain regions. Finally, training the process of lexical categorization resulted in more efficient reading. In sum, we propose that word recognition in the ventral visual stream involves word-likeness extraction followed by lexical categorization before one can access word meaning. Explanation: for language this knowledge an on our data neural network human information with system use different not only how have analysis which V1 cortical neurons activity level 1 at V2 their processes representation also these specific task related structure us ability has similar but form new evidence support using study it was mechanism organization what cognitive complex understanding people's A critical region other function systems then known cells may or representations about two they show both shape memory capacity number object semantic cognition key parts areas were important languages comprehension development mechanisms used patients "there such same yet
The circadian clock exerts significance influence on the immune system and disruption of circadian rhythms has been linked to inflammatory pathologies. Shift workers often experience circadian misalignment as their irregular work schedules disrupt the natural light-dark cycle, which in turn can cause serious health problems associated with alterations in genetic expressions of clock genes. In particular, shift work is associated with impairment in immune function, and those alterations are sex-specific. The goal of this study is to better understand the mechanisms that explain the weakened immune system in shift workers. To achieve that goal, we have constructed a mathematical model of the mammalian pulmonary circadian clock coupled to an acute inflammation model in the male and female rats. Shift work was simulated by an 8h-phase advance of the circadian system with sex-specific modulation of clock genes. The model reproduces the clock gene expression in the lung and the immune response to various doses of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Under normal conditions, our model predicts that a host is more sensitive to LPS at circadian time (CT) CT12 versus CT0 due to a dynamic change of Interleukin 10 (IL-10), an anti-inflammatory cytokine. We identify REV-ERB as a key modulator of IL-10 activity throughout the circadian day. The model also predicts a reversal of the times of lowest and highest sensitivity to LPS, with males and females exhibiting an exaggerated response to LPS at CT0, which is countered by a blunted immune response at CT12. Overall, females produce fewer pro-inflammatory cytokines than males, but the extent of sequelae experienced by males and females varies across the circadian day. This model can serve as an essential component in an integrative model that will yield mechanistic understanding of how shift work-mediated circadian disruptions affect the inflammatory and other physiological responses. Explanation: for exposure effects may be endotoxin cells production levels blood neutrophils during changes bacteria infection disease human studies mice models when exposures or increased biological systems well known data these same results et animals under shifts sleep loss 1 altered molecular mechanism through were previously healthy people factors observed humans role control subjects exposed daily environmental jet white cell toll interleukin important physiology such experimental night period low dose effect not yet found all diseases symptoms they men's high fever related sickness critical many infections outcomes from reported bacterial sepsis mortality timing environment alter group one could different works
Rapid urbanization, global trade, and the exceptionally great numbers of worldwide visitors during Hajj and Umrah have all placed the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia at a significant risk of introducing several vector-borne tropical diseases, such as dengue fever virus (DENV) infection. In this study we estimated DENV infection cost of illness (COI) in Saudi Arabia in the period 2013 2017, by processing national data including all declared cases recorded in referral centers in the western region, being the endemic region of the country. Using a statistically validated predictive model that was built on a representative sample of 717 laboratory-confirmed cases of DENV infection, direct costs, due to care-related expenditures, were estimated by applying the predictive equation to national data. However, indirect costs, which are due to productivity loss, were estimated using the human capital model based on gross domestic product adjusted for invalidity duration. Further, under-reporting was adjusted by using an expansion factor EF = 3. We observed highest estimated costs in 2016 with over US $168. 5 Million total costs, including direct (US $29. 0 Million) and indirect (US $139. 5 Million) costs, for a total 4415 confirmed cases. The total DENV COI for the five years was estimated as US $551. 0 Million for a total 15, 369 patients (59. 7%) out of 25, 745 declared cases, resulting in an average cost of US $11 947. 6 by patient. Depending on the year, productivity years loss costs accounted for 63. 3% to 83. 8% of the estimated total costs. Dengue has a substantial local economic burden that costs US $110. 2 Million per year, stressing the urgent need for an effective national prevention strategy to perform considerable cost-savings besides reducing morbidity. Explanation: health system public disease severe acute countries income is more people travel associated healthcare resource use estimates annual incidence rate 1 million travels population mean time from development dollars infected infections mortality impact results number predicted future high prevalence day can be transmission mosquito Aedes aegypti malaria treatment scale A new outbreak imported non not reported level studies many other used models our interventions against developed world mosquitoes control their international travelers exposure rates may or present one large areas across Africa further it predict major developing these increasing factors into previously known viruses epidemic regions viral outbreaks when
Fat stored in the form of lipid droplets has long been considered a defining characteristic of cytoplasm. However, recent studies have shown that nuclear lipid droplets occur in multiple cells and tissues, including in human patients with fatty liver disease. The function (s) of stored fat in the nucleus has not been determined, and it is possible that nuclear fat is beneficial in some situations. Conversely, nuclear lipid droplets might instead be deleterious by disrupting nuclear organization or triggering aggregation of hydrophobic proteins. We show here that nuclear lipid droplets occur normally in C. elegans intestinal cells and germ cells, but appear to be associated with damage only in the intestine. Lipid droplets in intestinal nuclei can be associated with novel bundles of microfilaments (nuclear actin) and membrane tubules that might have roles in damage repair. To increase the normal, low frequency of nuclear lipid droplets in wild-type animals, we used a forward genetic screen to isolate mutants with abnormally large or abundant nuclear lipid droplets. Genetic analysis and cloning of three such mutants showed that the genes encode the lipid regulator SEIP-1 / seipin, the inner nuclear membrane protein NEMP-1 / Nemp1 / TMEM194A, and a component of COPI vesicles called COPA-1 / α-COP. We present several lines of evidence that the nuclear lipid droplet phenotype of copa-1 mutants results from a defect in retrieving mislocalized membrane proteins that normally reside in the endoplasmic reticulum. The seip-1 mutant causes most germ cells to have nuclear lipid droplets, the largest of which occupy more than a third of the nuclear volume. Nevertheless, the nuclear lipid droplets do not trigger apoptosis, and the germ cells differentiate into gametes that produce viable, healthy progeny. Thus, our results suggest that nuclear lipid droplets are detrimental to intestinal nuclei, but have no obvious deleterious effect on germ nuclei. Explanation: for lipids this cell loss their organelles small cargo ER membranes may also these bodies an essential yeast mitochondria complex cellular nmany other important new found oil digestive vacuoles formation mechanisms organelle structures as process import transport OES secretion they mitochondrial cristal assembly machinery trafficking endosomes related during development intracellular A body how could cytoplasmic control lipase processing metabolic energy storage triacylglycerol synthesis de its degradation triglyceride metabolism In when required autophagy quality damaged peroxisomes fission vacuole biogenesis DOur eat digestion processes critical role were previously functional peroxisome size et high levels gene expression defective peroxisomal
Neuronal damage is a major consequence of bacterial meningitis, but little is known about mechanisms of bacterial interaction with neurons leading to neuronal cell death. Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis and many survivors develop neurological sequelae after the acute infection has resolved, possibly due to neuronal damage. Here, we studied mechanisms for pneumococcal interactions with neurons. Using human primary neurons, pull-down experiments and mass spectrometry, we show that pneumococci interact with the cytoskeleton protein β-actin through the pilus-1 adhesin RrgA and the cytotoxin pneumolysin (Ply), thereby promoting adhesion and invasion of neurons, and neuronal death. Using our bacteremia-derived meningitis mouse model, we observe that RrgA- and Ply-expressing pneumococci co-localize with neuronal β-actin. Using purified proteins, we show that Ply, through its cholesterol-binding domain 4, interacts with the neuronal plasma membrane, thereby increasing the exposure on the outer surface of β-actin filaments, leading to more β-actin binding sites available for RrgA binding, and thus enhanced pneumococcal interactions with neurons. Pneumococcal infection promotes neuronal death possibly due to increased intracellular Ca2 + levels depending on presence of Ply, as well as on actin cytoskeleton disassembly. STED super-resolution microscopy showed disruption of β-actin filaments in neurons infected with pneumococci expressing RrgA and Ply. Finally, neuronal death caused by pneumococcal infection could be inhibited using antibodies against β-actin. The generated data potentially helps explaining mechanisms for why pneumococci frequently cause neurological sequelae. Explanation: bacteria host cells killing neutrophils brain injury pneumonia an are this neutrophil immune response from these inflammatory IL receptor signaling pathways A new role important virulence factors expression lung epithelial barrier entry into receptors type S aureus infections associated lethal disease severe invasive strains can pathogenesis their We also ability bacterium specific critical cellular process how studies 2 or inflammation induced protective anti bactericidal activity not previously pathogenic mechanism kill which may use high toxin B Dfet it / s In survival mice tissue damaging neuron responses have two immunity tat pathogen's -found out Legionella
Conspecific male animals fight for resources such as food and mating opportunities but typically stop fighting after assessing their relative fighting abilities to avoid serious injuries. Physiologically, how the fighting behavior is controlled remains unknown. Using the fighting fish Betta splendens, we studied behavioral and brain-transcriptomic changes during the fight between the two opponents. At the behavioral level, surface-breathing, and biting / striking occurred only during intervals between mouth-locking. Eventually, the behaviors of the two opponents became synchronized, with each pair showing a unique behavioral pattern. At the physiological level, we examined the expression patterns of 23, 306 brain transcripts using RNA-sequencing data from brains of fighting pairs after a 20-min (D20) and a 60-min (D60) fight. The two opponents in each D60 fighting pair showed a strong gene expression correlation, whereas those in D20 fighting pairs showed a weak correlation. Moreover, each fighting pair in the D60 group showed pair-specific gene expression patterns in a grade of membership analysis (GoM) and were grouped as a pair in the heatmap clustering. The observed pair-specific individualization in brain-transcriptomic synchronization (PIBS) suggested that this synchronization provides a physiological basis for the behavioral synchronization. An analysis using the synchronized genes in fighting pairs of the D60 group found genes enriched for ion transport, synaptic function, and learning and memory. Brain-transcriptomic synchronization could be a general phenomenon and may provide a new cornerstone with which to investigate coordinating and sustaining social interactions between two interacting partners of vertebrates. Explanation: signaling network et system use by are same species more or not known mechanisms genetic regulation these can We have an activity signals our neurons response networks control different cells activation signal molecules used information on animal's nervous systems ability molecular cell body conserved model organisms responses also when they similar neural circuits identified potential biological process communication pathways well study neuronal coupling groups important common one functional role bacteria stress survival ant complex many other cellular mechanism it wants immune signalling at aggression novel stimuli previously A both present time blood plasma proteins associated health condition physiology
Mosquito viruses cause unpredictable outbreaks of disease. Recently, several unassigned viruses isolated from mosquitoes, including the Omono River virus (OmRV), were identified as totivirus-like viruses, with features similar to those of the Totiviridae family. Most reported members of this family infect fungi or protozoans and lack an extracellular life cycle stage. Here, we identified a new strain of OmRV and determined high-resolution structures for this virus using single-particle cryo-electron microscopy. The structures feature an unexpected protrusion at the five-fold vertex of the capsid. Disassociation of the protrusion could result in several conformational changes in the major capsid. All these structures, together with some biological results, suggest the protrusions associations with the extracellular transmission of OmRV. Explanation: that viral protein structure is cell entry host receptor binding proteins are by infection cells membrane receptors interactions ombe on our surface Rosuch studies have A their We structural model predicted mechanism into which also known how many parasite's use different mechanisms oocysts human infectious Cryptosporidium apicomparasites development it infected cellular process In complex C teg1 not found conserved important role has pathogen specific coat attachment / infections factors used study replication inside sporozoites malaria Plasmodium falciparum Toxoplasma gondii Iparasitic invasion can P sporozoite aduring protozoan species infecting function its As
mTOR, a serine / threonine protein kinase that is involved in a series of critical cellular processes, can be found in two functionally distinct complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2. In contrast to mTORC1, little is known about the mechanisms that regulate mTORC2. Here we show that mTORC2 activity is reduced in mice with a hypomorphic mutation of the Ric-8B gene. Ric-8B is a highly conserved protein that acts as a non-canonical guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for heterotrimeric Gαs / olf type subunits. We found that Ric-8B hypomorph embryos are smaller than their wild type littermates, fail to close the neural tube in the cephalic region and die during mid-embryogenesis. Comparative transcriptome analysis revealed that signaling pathways involving GPCRs and G proteins are dysregulated in the Ric-8B mutant embryos. Interestingly, this analysis also revealed an unexpected impairment of the mTOR signaling pathway. Phosphorylation of Akt at Ser473 is downregulated in the Ric-8B mutant embryos, indicating a decreased activity of mTORC2. Knockdown of the endogenous Ric-8B gene in cultured cell lines leads to reduced phosphorylation levels of Akt (Ser473), further supporting the involvement of Ric-8B in mTORC2 activity. Our results reveal a crucial role for Ric-8B in development and provide novel insights into the signals that regulate mTORC2. Explanation: mammalian cells growth inhibitory cancer rapamycin complex 2 kinases regulatory function et human brain tumor associated mutations Rap1 signalling activation PI3K or by have genes expression regulators binding these tumors related molecules inhibitors AKT signal regulation The essential studies on A key required cancers Ras oncogenic C disease mechanism activated RabGTPases small Rho family members which were identified genetic loss functions important normal control Rac GTPase activating one regulator Cdc42 from Rac1 inhibition may such study our previously This it has been regulated b other activate new molecular effects more components how different was identify membrane active GTP
As a common vector-borne disease, dengue fever remains challenging to predict due to large variations in epidemic size across seasons driven by a number of factors including population susceptibility, mosquito density, meteorological conditions, geographical factors, and human mobility. An ensemble forecast system for dengue fever is first proposed that addresses the difficulty of predicting outbreaks with drastically different scales. The ensemble forecast system based on a susceptible-infected-recovered (SIR) type of compartmental model coupled with a data assimilation method called the ensemble adjusted Kalman filter (EAKF) is constructed to generate real-time forecasts of dengue fever spread dynamics. The model was informed by meteorological and mosquito density information to depict the transmission of dengue virus among human and mosquito populations, and generate predictions. To account for the dramatic variations of outbreak size in different seasons, the effective population size parameter that is sequentially updated to adjust the predicted outbreak scale is introduced into the model. Before optimizing the transmission model, we update the effective population size using the most recent observations and historical records so that the predicted outbreak size is dynamically adjusted. In the retrospective forecast of dengue outbreaks in Guangzhou, China during the 2011 2017 seasons, the proposed forecast model generates accurate projections of peak timing, peak intensity, and total incidence, outperforming a generalized additive model approach. The ensemble forecast system can be operated in real-time and inform control planning to reduce the burden of dengue fever. Explanation: epidemics models are have an weather prediction seasonal malaria mosquitoes risk climate 1 year more such as years from observed epidemiological study results our modelling season this which out reported health surveillance infection cases between used A global We could not known or future has been previously estimates over these endemic countries / present day but also provide high temperature mean seasonable at times forecasting systems when it daily occurrence tropical rainfall patterns annual simulations were well predicts new febrile public severe diseases associated regions other than infections one modeling studies people's all their under developed areas
Leprosy and leprosy-related stigma can have a major impact on psychosocial wellbeing of persons affected and their family members. Resilience is a process that incorporates many of the core skills and abilities which may enable people to address stigma and discrimination. The current study aimed to develop and pilot an intervention to strengthen individual and family resilience against leprosy-related discrimination. We used a quasi-experimental, before-after study design with a mixed methods approach. The 10-week family-based intervention was designed to strengthen the resilience of individuals and families by enhancing their protective abilities and capacity to overcome adversity. The study was conducted in two sites, urban areas in Telangana state, and in rural areas in Odisha state, India. Persons affected and their family members were included using purposive sampling. Two questionnaires were used pre-and post-intervention: the Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC, maximum score 100, with high scores reflecting greater resilience) and the WHOQOL-BREF (maximum score of 130, with higher scores reflecting higher quality of life). In addition, semi-structured interviews were conducted post-intervention. Data were collected at baseline, a few weeks after completion of the intervention, and in the Odisha cohort again at six months after completion. Paired t-tests measured differences pre- and post- intervention. Qualitative data were thematically analysed. Eighty participants across 20 families were included in the study (23 persons affected and 57 family members). We found a significant increase in CD-RISC scores for persons affected and family members from Odisha state (baseline 46. 5, first follow-up 77. 0, second follow-up 70. 0), this improvement was maintained at six-month follow-up. There was no increase in CD-RISC scores post-intervention among participants from Telangana state. WHOQOL-BREF scores were significantly higher at follow-up for persons affected in both states, and for family members in Odisha state. No families dropped out of the study. In the qualitative feedback, all participants described drawing benefit from the programme. Participants especially appreciated the social dimensions of the intervention. This pilot study showed that the 10-week family-based intervention to strengthen resilience among persons affected by leprosy and their family members was feasible, and has the potential to improve resilience and quality of life. A large-scale efficacy trial is necessary to determine the effectiveness and long-term sustainability of the intervention. Explanation: community health interventions support HIV orphanas well ascommunities living are disease burden households associated factors help understanding studies outcomes more we effective strategies work through these also other not effects research evidence control programs such household tuberculosis patients' -human rights poverty development country they how knowledge transmission fear stigmatless but those who better treatment care? illness face loss relationship between experiences survivors mental ill same years lived severe disability consequences had be resilient coping self perceived risk psychological distress levels one important role it known / ability our recovery housing residents experienced
Correct bioriented attachment of sister chromatids to the mitotic spindle is essential for chromosome segregation. In budding yeast, the conserved protein shugoshin (Sgo1) contributes to biorientation by recruiting the protein phosphatase PP2A-Rts1 and the condensin complex to centromeres. Using peptide prints, we identified a Serine-Rich Motif (SRM) of Sgo1 that mediates the interaction with condensin and is essential for centromeric condensin recruitment and the establishment of biorientation. We show that the interaction is regulated via phosphorylation within the SRM and we determined the phospho-sites using mass spectrometry. Analysis of the phosphomimic and phosphoresistant mutants revealed that SRM phosphorylation disrupts the shugoshin condensin interaction. We present evidence that Mps1, a central kinase in the spindle assembly checkpoint, directly phosphorylates Sgo1 within the SRM to regulate the interaction with condensin and thereby condensin localization to centromeres. Our findings identify novel mechanisms that control shugoshin activity at the centromere in budding yeast. Explanation: kinetochore proteins are cell cycle kinetochon chromosomes function required Aurora A / this cells mitosis spindles microtubule aster microtubules organization during which as known how these important role The it or not binding interactions between our studies pombe meiotic DNA replication origin chromatin S phase kinases an may be key factors have their two new one regulation SMC cohesin complexes other chromatid cohesion map genes regulatory model human genome also called critical meiosis chromosomal non genetic cerevisiae This when can many different from high cancer mutations loss found gene fission cenBall functions et al Drosophila centri
T cell epitope candidates are commonly identified using computational prediction tools in order to enable applications such as vaccine design, cancer neoantigen identification, development of diagnostics and removal of unwanted immune responses against protein therapeutics. Most T cell epitope prediction tools are based on machine learning algorithms trained on MHC binding or naturally processed MHC ligand elution data. The ability of currently available tools to predict T cell epitopes has not been comprehensively evaluated. In this study, we used a recently published dataset that systematically defined T cell epitopes recognized in vaccinia virus (VACV) infected C57BL / 6 mice (expressing H-2Db and H-2Kb), considering both peptides predicted to bind MHC or experimentally eluted from infected cells, making this the most comprehensive dataset of T cell epitopes mapped in a complex pathogen. We evaluated the performance of all currently publicly available computational T cell epitope prediction tools to identify these major epitopes from all peptides encoded in the VACV proteome. We found that all methods were able to improve epitope identification above random, with the best performance achieved by neural network-based predictions trained on both MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data (NetMHCPan-4. 0 and MHCFlurry). Impressively, these methods were able to capture more than half of the major epitopes in the top N = 277 predictions within the N = 767, 788 predictions made for distinct peptides of relevant lengths that can theoretically be encoded in the VACV proteome. These performance metrics provide guidance for immunologists as to which prediction methods to use, and what success rates are possible for epitope predictions when considering a highly controlled system of administered immunizations to inbred mice. In addition, this benchmark was implemented in an open and easy to reproduce format, providing developers with a framework for future comparisons against new tools. Explanation: CTL human CD8 peptide HLA class I viral CTLs is model our approach vaccines target proteins TCR presented key information models have high accuracy results specific important studies help sequence motifs discovery novel host immunity viruses associated B known antibodies recognition potential antigens across HIV type CD4 + disease mechanism current experimental well designed method set out predicting their A natural conserved non functional previously reported mouse Tone present vaccination strategies 1 unique but also other molecules targeted analysis motif i effective approaches how could algorithm better developed here antibody response humans critical questions infection knowledge it may immunology
Epidemiological research suggests that paternal obesity may increase the risk of fathering small for gestational age offspring. Studies in non-human mammals indicate that such associations could be mediated by DNA methylation changes in spermatozoa that influence offspring development in utero. Human obesity is associated with differential DNA methylation in peripheral blood. It is unclear, however, whether this differential DNA methylation is reflected in spermatozoa. We profiled genome-wide DNA methylation using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array in a cross-sectional study of matched human blood and sperm from lean (discovery n = 47; replication n = 21) and obese (n = 22) males to analyse tissue covariation of DNA methylation, and identify obesity-associated methylomic signatures. We found that DNA methylation signatures of human blood and spermatozoa are highly discordant, and methylation levels are correlated at only a minority of CpG sites (~ 1%). At the majority of these sites, DNA methylation appears to be influenced by genetic variation. Obesity-associated DNA methylation in blood was not generally reflected in spermatozoa, and obesity was not associated with altered covariation patterns or accelerated epigenetic ageing in the two tissues. However, one cross-tissue obesity-specific hypermethylated site (cg19357369; chr4: 2429884; P = 8. 95 × 10 − 8; 2% DNA methylation difference) was identified, warranting replication and further investigation. When compared to a wide range of human somatic tissue samples (n = 5, 917), spermatozoa displayed differential DNA methylation across pathways enriched in transcriptional regulation. Overall, human sperm displays a unique DNA methylation profile that is highly discordant to, and practically uncorrelated with, that of matched peripheral blood. We observed that obesity was only nominally associated with differential DNA methylation in sperm, and therefore suggest that spermatozoal DNA methylation is an unlikely mediator of intergenerational effects of metabolic traits. Explanation: body fat men health related genes imprinted gene expression male have we also known which ome studies on can et results The -linked data our previously high level cell factors adult epigenomes novel genomic imprinting control cells differences between same as woboA ans disease mechanisms potential causal effect? In humans exposure exposures increased programming future adverse outcomes children overweight / how epigenetics environment association diseases later common people low bodies adipose derived their early pregnancy maternal diet food exposed epigeney has findings linking during fetal energy metabolism but more studied cord leptin C
Several barriers protect the central nervous system (CNS) from pathogen invasion. Yet viral infections of the CNS are common and often debilitating. Understanding how neurotropic viruses co-opt host machinery to overcome challenges to neuronal entry and transmission is important to combat these infections. Neurotropic reovirus disseminates through neural routes and invades the CNS to cause lethal encephalitis in newborn animals. To define mechanisms of reovirus neuronal entry and directional transport, we used primary neuron cultures, which reproduce in vivo infection patterns displayed by different reovirus serotypes. Treatment of neurons with small-molecule inhibitors of different endocytic uptake pathways allowed us to discover that the cellular machinery mediating macropinocytosis is required for reovirus neuronal entry. This mechanism of reovirus entry differs from clathrin-mediated endocytosis, which is used by reovirus to invade non-neuronal cells. Analysis of reovirus transport and release from isolated soma or axonal termini of neurons cultivated in microfluidic devices indicates that reovirus is capable of retrograde but only limited anterograde neuronal transmission. The dynamics of retrograde reovirus movement are consistent with fast axonal transport coordinated by dynein along microtubules. Further analysis of viral transport revealed that multiple virions are transported together in axons within non-acidified vesicles. Reovirus-containing vesicles acidify after reaching the soma, where disassembly of virions and release of the viral core into the cytoplasm initiates replication. These results define mechanisms of reovirus neuronal entry and transport and establish a foundation to identify common host factors used by neuroinvasive viruses. Furthermore, our findings emphasize consideration of cell type-specific entry mechanisms in the tailored design of neurotropic viruses as tracers, oncolytic agents, and delivery vectors. Explanation: virus infected receptor binding receptors use trafficking endosomes enter brain tissue be can infect model intracellular it an ability reothis new targeted proteins 1 / not known studies on process their have been previously cargo routing internalized pathway endosomal targeting many more such We also infecting may human one found out nerve growth during endosome A study using rabies spread disease mice models were novel antiviral treatment strategies against target efficient therapeutic HSV onother has shown when they function was well knowledge infectious particles large capacity enterovirus enters signaling molecules work same oviruses virion post all
Potent and durable vaccine responses will be required for control of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum (Pf). RTS, S / AS01 is the first, and to date, the only vaccine that has demonstrated significant reduction of clinical and severe malaria in endemic cohorts in Phase 3 trials. Although the vaccine is protective, efficacy declines over time with kinetics paralleling the decline in antibody responses to the Pf circumsporozoite protein (PfCSP). Although most attention has focused on antibodies to repeat motifs on PfCSP, antibodies to other regions may play a role in protection. Here, we expressed and characterized seven monoclonal antibodies to the C-terminal domain of CSP (ctCSP) from volunteers immunized with RTS, S / AS01. Competition and crystal structure studies indicated that the antibodies target two different sites on opposite faces of ctCSP. One site contains a polymorphic region (denoted α-ctCSP) and has been previously characterized, whereas the second is a previously undescribed site on the conserved β-sheet face of the ctCSP (denoted β-ctCSP). Antibodies to the β-ctCSP site exhibited broad reactivity with a diverse panel of ctCSP peptides whose sequences were derived from field isolates of P. falciparum whereas antibodies to the α-ctCSP site showed very limited cross reactivity. Importantly, an antibody to the β-site demonstrated inhibition activity against malaria infection in a murine model. This study identifies a previously unidentified conserved epitope on CSP that could be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and exploited in structure-based vaccine design. Explanation: CS1 are anti tas immune binding human vaccination immunity response can vaccines development T cell specific epitopes have used these or s our data this new Cit antigens approach which cat disease blood transmission sporozoites rchallenge parasite invasion host cells IThe not known CS high risk people's infections associated use A novel found important potential when developed highly SSPf4 We non - In more than identified here targeting approaches using such B Dtype major proteins 2 years after show how blocking peptide 3DMalaria vivax infected mice models understanding
Lysine malonylation is a post-translational modification (PTM), which regulates many cellular processes. Limited information is available about the level of lysine malonylation variations between Toxoplasma gondii strains of distinct genetic lineages. Yet, insights into such variations are needed to understand the extent to which lysine malonylation contributes to the differences in the virulence and repertoire of virulence factors between T. gondii genotypes. In this study, we profiled lysine malonylation in T. gondii using quantitative liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS / MS) and immuno-affinity purification. This analysis was performed on three T. gondii strains with distinctive pathogenicity in mice, including RH strain (type I), PRU strain (type II), and VEG strain (type III). In total, 111 differentially malonylated proteins and 152 sites were upregulated, and 17 proteins and 17 sites were downregulated in RH strain versus PRU strain; 50 proteins and 59 sites were upregulated, 50 proteins and 53 sites were downregulated in RH strain versus VEG strain; and 72 proteins and 90 sites were upregulated, and 7 proteins and 8 sites were downregulated in VEG strain versus PRU strain. Differentially malonylated proteins were involved in key processes, such as those mediating the regulation of protein metabolism, stress response, glycolysis, and actin cytoskeleton. These results reveal an association between lysine malonylation and intra-species virulence differences in T. gondii and offer a new resource for elucidating the contribution of lysine malonylation to energy metabolism and virulence in T. gondii. Explanation: Malthat host cell infection parasite maldisease studies by known parasites cells more enzymes role these important pathways immune resistance mechanisms also found other genes expression levels phosphorylation or enzyme function previously our data have We can be different from how metabolic 1 increased susceptibility infections mouse lethal experimental model 2 critical mutations alter during infected macrophages associated gene The treatment drug resistant parasitic growth stage two used immunity against it al novel identified potential protective Kall pathogenic changes may one specific regulatory non biological lipid lipids molecules at Leishmania amK1 site k3 A not essential
Nematode parasites infect approximately 1. 5 billion people globally and are a significant public health concern. There is an accepted need for new, more effective anthelmintic drugs. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors on parasite nerve and somatic muscle are targets of the cholinomimetic anthelmintics, while glutamate-gated chloride channels in the pharynx of the nematode are affected by the avermectins. Here we describe a novel nicotinic acetylcholine receptor on the nematode pharynx that is a potential new drug target. This homomeric receptor is comprised of five non-Î ± EAT-2 subunits and is not sensitive to existing cholinomimetic anthelmintics. We found that EAT-18, a novel auxiliary subunit protein, is essential for functional expression of the receptor. EAT-18 directly interacts with the mature receptor, and different homologs alter the pharmacological properties. Thus we have described not only a novel potential drug target but also a new type of obligate auxiliary protein for nAChRs. Explanation: ACh binding ivermectin human parasitic nematodes cholinergic this parasis infection (as these A et al) studies use known from other important AChor may disease specific treatment development antiacanthworm species has used host AChE inhibitors pharmacology activity against it can anti resistance ant therapeutic efficacy previously identified their The treated Ascaris strongworms infections associated genes helminth Aat which our model intestinal nematus results were mechanism study As well treatments effects In animal models old / humans helminthsuch control Ivermectin resistant hook4 proteins function infected animals; Owhen
HIV-1 infects CD4 T lymphocytes (CD4TL) through binding the chemokine receptors CCR5 or CXCR4. CXCR4-using viruses are considered more pathogenic, linked to accelerated depletion of CD4TL and progression to AIDS. However, counterexamples to this paradigm are common, suggesting heterogeneity in the virulence of CXCR4-using viruses. Here, we investigated the role of the CXCR4 chemokine CXCL12 as a driving force behind virus virulence. In vitro, CXCL12 prevents HIV-1 from binding CXCR4 and entering CD4TL, but its role in HIV-1 transmission and propagation remains speculative. Through analysis of thirty envelope glycoproteins (Envs) from patients at different stages of infection, mostly treatment-naïve, we first interrogated whether sensitivity of viruses to inhibition by CXCL12 varies over time in infection. Results show that Envs resistant (RES) to CXCL12 are frequent in patients experiencing low CD4TL levels, most often late in infection, only rarely at the time of primary infection. Sensitivity assays to soluble CD4 or broadly neutralizing antibodies further showed that RES Envs adopt a more closed conformation with distinct antigenicity, compared to CXCL12-sensitive (SENS) Envs. At the level of the host cell, our results suggest that resistance is not due to improved fusion or binding to CD4, but owes to viruses using particular CXCR4 molecules weakly accessible to CXCL12. We finally asked whether the low CD4TL levels in patients are related to increased pathogenicity of RES viruses. Resistance actually provides viruses with an enhanced capacity to enter naive CD4TL when surrounded by CXCL12, which mirrors their situation in lymphoid organs, and to deplete bystander activated effector memory cells. Therefore, RES viruses seem more likely to deregulate CD4TL homeostasis. This work improves our understanding of the pathophysiology and the transmission of HIV-1 and suggests that RES viruses receptors could represent new therapeutic targets to help prevent CD4TL depletion in HIV + patients on cART. Explanation: X4 entry SDF for viral Env high expression may be disease infected R5 infections can use chemokines receptor interactions between these 4 studies data also used anti human immune system response factors have important signaling mechanisms such The critical C type 2 / s function IL regulatory non it's key into previously known ability found some effects play interaction involved model how study has been strategies development mechanism specific Sblood CXLcouspeople responses during were control vet CCR3 surface ligand expressed proteins enX virions trafficking DCs process they act thus potential novel
Zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ZCL) is endemic in Palestine and transmitted by Phlebotomus sand flies. They inhabit dens of hyraxes, the reservoir animal. Control measures were implemented since 1996 but cases still occur. We estimated the effect of insecticide thermal fogging inside hyrax dens on sand fly density and leishmania infection. During July-September 2019, we conducted a 12-week controlled interrupted time series study in two control and one intervention sites containing three hyrax dens each. We implemented Permethrin thermal fogging in the intervention site at week 6. We measured weekly and 36hrs post-intervention sand fly abundance inside dens using CDC light traps. We performed Next-Generation Sequencing to identify sand fly Leishmania spp. infection. We calculated the abundance reduction (AR) using Mulla s formula and negative binomial regression. Among 11427 collected sand flies, 7339 (64%) were females and 1786 (16%) were Phlebotomus spp. comprising ten species; P. sergenti was the dominant (n = 773, 43%). We report P. arabicus (n = 6) for the first time in Palestine. After fogging, Phlebotomus spp. AR was 93% at 36hrs, 18% and 38% at two and five weeks respectively and 41% during the complete post-intervention period. In the regression models, Phlebotomus spp. density in the intervention site decreased by 74% (IRR: 0. 26, 95% CI: 0. 11 0. 57) at two weeks, 34% (IRR: 0. 66, 95% CI: 0. 48 0. 90) at five weeks and 74% (IRR: 0. 26, 95% CI: 0. 12 0. 59) during the complete period. The density of Leishmania infected sand flies decreased by 65% (IRR: 0. 35, 95% CI: 0. 26 0. 48) at five weeks and 82% (IRR: 0. 18, 95% CI: 0. 07 0. 42) for the complete period (zero infections until week two). Leishmania infection prevalence in the intervention site was 14% pre-intervention and 3. 9% post-intervention. Fogging hyrax dens reduced sand fly abundance and leishmania infection during the 5-week post-intervention period and especially the first two weeks suggesting it could be an effective source-reduction measure for ZCL vectors. Future randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm the effectiveness of fogging hyrax dens on decreasing ZCL incidence. Explanation: sand1 disease transmission human health interventions community that houses treated with dogs vector indoor used against this year parasite risk areas dog Leishmaniasis studies have model communities as previously results from where high level impact treatment klA new dLuse man population Imass distribution can also these years after elimination strategies remain foci more than area significant number such tour data spatial repellyThis other people's -when bv sprayed water management thus short no killing malaria republic house environmental settings show efficacy 2 or landscape owned canine fle
Non-coding regions of viral RNA (vRNA) genomes are critically important in the regulation of gene expression. In particular, pseudoknot (PK) structures, which are present in a wide range of RNA molecules, have a variety of roles. The 5 ′ untranslated region (5 ′ UTR) of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) vRNA is considerably longer than in other viruses from the picornavirus family and consists of a number of distinctive structural motifs that includes multiple (2, 3 or 4 depending on the virus strain) putative PKs linked in tandem. The role (s) of the PKs in the FMDV infection are not fully understood. Here, using bioinformatics, sub-genomic replicons and recombinant viruses we have investigated the structural conservation and importance of the PKs in the FMDV lifecycle. Our results show that despite the conservation of two or more PKs across all FMDVs, a replicon lacking PKs was replication competent, albeit at reduced levels. Furthermore, in competition experiments, GFP FMDV replicons with less than two (0 or 1) PK structures were outcompeted by a mCherry FMDV wt replicon that had 4 PKs, whereas GFP replicons with 2 or 4 PKs were not. This apparent replicative advantage offered by the additional PKs correlates with the maintenance of at least two PKs in the genomes of FMDV field isolates. Despite a replicon lacking any PKs retaining the ability to replicate, viruses completely lacking PK were not viable and at least one PK was essential for recovery of infections virus, suggesting a role for the PKs in virion assembly. Thus, our study points to roles for the PKs in both vRNA replication and virion assembly, thereby improving understanding the molecular biology of FMDV replication and the wider roles of PK in RNA functions. Explanation: host cell this protein structure conserved proteins can be cellular factors cells infected these as an RNAs PK1 / A key functional studies also known function their genes may it into how critical We previously found data has been predicted model infectious potymechanisms PV non replicating HCV human pathogenic but genome elements similar between those used sequence analysis potential antiviral resistance mutations sites identified new such they likely nature specific binding interactions many while mechanism use highly residues required different sequences within shown here large part through during evolution selected KVP1 capsid self HIV entry virions K1
Praziquantel (PZQ) is currently the only recommended drug for infection and disease caused by the schistosome species that infects humans; however, the current tablet formulation is not suitable for pre-school age children mainly due to its bitterness and the large tablet size. We assessed the palatability of two new orally disintegrating tablet (ODT) formulations of PZQ. This randomized, single-blind, crossover, swill-and-spit palatability study (NCT02315352) was carried out at a single school in Tanzania in children aged 6 11 years old, with or without schistosomiasis infection as this was not part of the assessment. Children were stratified according to age group (6 8 years or 9 11 years) and gender, then randomized to receive each formulation in a pre-specified sequence. Over 2 days, the children assessed the palatability of Levo-Praziquantel (L-PZQ) ODT 150 mg and Racemate Praziquantel (Rac-PZQ) ODT 150 mg disintegrated in the mouth without water on the first day, and L-PZQ and Rac-PZQ dispersed in water and the currently available PZQ 600 mg formulation (PZQ-Cesol) crushed and dispersed in water on the second day. The palatability of each formulation was rated using a 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS) incorporating a 5-point hedonic scale, immediately after spitting out the test product (VASt = 0 primary outcome) and after 2 5 minutes (VASt = 2 5). In total, 48 children took part in the assessment. Overall, there was no reported difference in the VASt = 0 between the two ODT formulations (p = 0. 106) without water. Higher VASt = 0 and VASt = 2 5 scores were reported for L-PZQ ODT compared with Rac-PZQ ODT in older children (p = 0. 046 and p = 0. 026, respectively). The VASt = 0 and VASt = 2 5 were higher for both ODT formulations compared with the standard formulation (p < 0. 001 for both time points). No serious adverse events were reported. The new paediatric-friendly formulations dispersed in water were both found to be more palatable than the existing standard formulation of PZQ. There may be gender and age effects on the assessment of palatability. Further research is needed for assessing efficacy and tolerability of the newly ODTs Praziquantel drug in younger children. The trial was registered on ClinicalTrials. gov (NCT02315352) and in the Pan African Clinical Trials Registry (PACTR201412000959159). Explanation: prazine an treatment are health food parasite dose development studies have we can used information when child well tolerated oral delivery system s high quality acceptability taste novel once daily drugs such important data from products' use over many people effective but poor knowledge how often these adults safe lead questions takmedicine one has better understanding results? clinical trials population known treatments which patients too control parasitegg albendazole 10 times anthelmintic granules administration should now given their interventions safety antidtegSchistosoma mansoni giS ABSTRACT transmission level treated parasites 1 adult worm
Drug resistance in viruses represents one of the major challenges of healthcare. As part of an effort to provide a treatment that avoids the possibility of drug resistance, we discovered a novel mechanism of action (MOA) and specific compounds to treat all nine human herpesviruses and animal herpesviruses. The novel MOA targets the pressurized genome state in a viral capsid, turns off capsid pressure, and blocks viral genome ejection into a cell nucleus, preventing viral replication. This work serves as a proof-of-concept to demonstrate the feasibility of a new antiviral target suppressing pressure-driven viral genome ejection that is likely impervious to developing drug resistance. This pivotal finding presents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viral infections with genome-pressure-dependent replication. A biophysical approach to antiviral treatment such as this is also a vital strategy to prevent the spread of emerging viruses where vaccine development is challenged by high mutation rates or other evasion mechanisms. Explanation: virus entry host cells infection drugs against are our studies on these resistant HIV DNA can be inhibitors strategies have Oit known anti disease infected proteins use which may We found out data from study their therapy targeting protein binding antivirals agents used previously results In important mutations strains herpes simplex virion activity HSV 1 / s key essential but has developed methods inhibitor targeted therapies could not effective therapeutic more than inhibition experiments using different molecules active site residues conserved between herpesvirus encoded genes predicted tegat critical mutants virions sensitive two identified potential they same current required
A group of four human inhabited Nancowry Islands in Nicobar district in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, India having a population of 7674 is the lone focus of diurnally sub-periodic Wuchereria bancrofti (DspWB) that is transmitted by Aedes niveus (Ludlow). Microfilaria (Mf) prevalence was above 1% even after nine rounds of Mass Drug Administration (MDA) with DEC and albendazole. Molecular xenomonitoring (MX) was conducted to identify appropriate vector sampling method and assess the impact. BioGents Sentinel traps, gravid traps and human baited double bed nettraps were used in three locations in each village to collect Aedes niveus female mosquitoes. Subsequently daytime man landing collections (MLC) were carried out in all the 25 villages in the islands. Collections were compared in terms of the number of vector mosquitoes captured per trap collection. Females of Ae. niveus were pooled, dried and processed for detecting filarial parasite DNA using RT-PCR assay. Vector infection rate was estimated using PoolScreen software. Only 393 female mosquitoes including 44 Ae. niveus (11. 2%) were collected from 459 trap collections using three trapping devices. From 151 MLCs, 2170 Ae. niveus female mosquitoes were collected. The average prevalence of W. bancrofti DNA was 0. 43%. Estimated upper 95% CI exceeded the provisional prevalence threshold of 0. 1% in all the villages, indicating continued transmission as observed in Mf survey. MLCs could be the choice, for now, to sample Ae. niveus mosquitoes. The PCR assay used in MX for nocturnally periodic bancroftian filariasis could be adopted for DspWB. The vector-parasite MX, can be used to evaluate interventions in this area after further standardization of the protocol. Explanation: mlat malaria endemic communities nets treated health intervention study have mass drug ivermectin community control programme use on elimination onchiasis treatment LF disease lymphatic Onmicros people are high detection tools surveillance microscopy positive infections m / new screening test methods we will not or surveys fly light field level data mosquito biting flies active sentinel houses large scale distribution Idwater vectors' parasites found humans blood Omen studies where mapping Bal areas residents infected An. kIn risk populations only parasitic loAs molecular detect these results has more than previously
CREB-binding protein (CBP) participates in numerous transcription events. However, cell-intrinsic inhibitors of CBP are poorly defined. Here, we found that cellular USP12 interacts with the HAT domain of CBP and inhibits CBP s acetyltransferase activity. Interestingly, USP12 positively regulates interferon (IFN) antiviral signaling independently of its deubiquitinase activity. Furthermore, we found that in IFN signaling USP12 translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. The decrease in cytoplasmic USP12 facilitates CBP-induced acetylation and activation of IFN signaling proteins in the cytoplasm. Moreover, USP12 accumulation in the nucleus blocks CBP-induced acetylation of phosphorylated STAT1 (p-STAT1) and therefore inhibits the dephosphorylation effects of TCPTP on p-STAT1, which finally maintains nuclear p-STAT1 levels and IFN antiviral efficacy. USP12 nuclear translocation extends our understanding of the regulation of the strength of IFN antiviral signaling. Our study uncovers a cell-intrinsic regulation of CBP acetyltransferase activity and may provide potential strategies for IFN-based antiviral therapy. Explanation: viral infection cells by inhibitor is host this virus factors 1 function as mechanism human We an anti HIV Tat phosphorylation sites kinase active transcriptional control expression at infected these viruses associated their In have known or treatment target enzyme use specific inhibition work it can be previously identified new drug targeting enzymes also other important kinases activities many more gene high level such A / This studies mechanisms immune response against different has key disease related pathway how therapeutic effect identify drugs used ability they all but results show not small cancer patients treated people's well genes could
We report the identification of two orthobunyaviruses, Melao virus (MELV) and Oropouche virus (OROV), in plasma specimens from Haitian children with acute febrile illness who presented during outbreaks caused by alpha- and flaviviruses in 2014. Heretofore not described as a human pathogen, MELV was isolated in cell culture from the plasma of five case patients. OROV RNA was detected in the plasma of an additional child, using an unbiased sequencing approach, with phylogenetic inference suggesting a close relationship with strains from Brazil. Abdominal pain was reported by four case patients with MELV infections, with lymphadenopathy noted in two cases. Our findings document the occurrence of these orthobunyaviruses within the Caribbean region and highlight the critical importance of surveillance with viral genome sequence analyses to identify outbreaks caused by these and other emerging viruses. Explanation: that-disease outbreak is we are A for infection studies laboratory detection The have similar were transmission study on this our data found novel identified countries / In circulation patterns into regions or clinical blood samples results more known which has molecular biology related health system used analysis new evidence also important risk public severe fever endemic diseases global high level West Sudan epidemic potential cause infected humans previously years can be local people's country associated confirmed but may areas where likely infectious agent circulating between such large scale spread African host species 1 major group members responsible
The development of efficient vaccines against COVID-19 is an emergent need for global public health. The spike protein of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a major target for the COVID-19 vaccine. To quickly respond to the outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, a nucleic acid-based vaccine is a novel option, beyond the traditional inactivated virus vaccine or recombinant protein vaccine. Here, we report a DNA vaccine containing the spike gene for delivery via electroporation. The spike genes of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 were codon optimized for mammalian cell expression and then cloned into mammalian cell expression vectors, called pSARS-S and pSARS2-S, respectively. Spike protein expression was confirmed by immunoblotting after transient expression in HEK293T cells. After immunization, sera were collected for antigen-specific antibody and neutralizing antibody titer analyses. We found that both pSARS-S and pSARS2-S immunization induced similar levels of antibodies against S2 of SARS-CoV-2. In contrast, only pSARS2-S immunization induced antibodies against the receptor-binding domain of SARS-CoV-2. We further found that pSARS2-S immunization, but not pSARS-S immunization, could induce very high titers of neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. We further analyzed SARS-CoV-2 S protein-specific T cell responses and found that the immune responses were biased toward Th1. Importantly, pSARS2-S immunization in hamsters could induce protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 challenge in vivo. These data suggest that DNA vaccination could be a promising approach for protecting against COVID-19. Explanation: viral entry ACE2 host proteins human infection are as on with anti viruses S1 subunit 1 replication spikes membrane important mice studies have developed potential antiviral type A new antigens ruse our s RNA / infected cellular can this during infectious MERS coronadisease highly lethal animal model infections using used previously results show targeted fusion envelope glycoproteins expressed system two immunizations safety? -whole life time critical Alive delivered safe also these animals protection from develop effective strategies targeting such experimental pneumonia study more likely one key immunized shreat group mouse IAs Vero
Morbidity management and disability prevention (MMDP) services are essential for the management of chronic stages of lymphatic filariasis (LF) infection. However, there is limited information on health beliefs and health seeking behavior towards MMDP services for LF in endemic regions of Zambia. This study sought to document health beliefs and health seeking behavior towards MMDP services for LF in Luangwa District, Zambia. This was an exploratory qualitative study conducted with community members including LF patients, community health workers and healthcare providers. Data was collected through a series of four focus group discussions stratified by sex and 26 in-depth interviews. Data was analyzed by thematic analysis using NVivo software. The perceived causes of the chronic manifestations of LF included; contact with animal faeces, use of traditional herbal aphrodisiacs (mutoto), witchcraft and sexual contact with women who were menstruating or had miscarried. LF patients opted to visit traditional healers before going to health facilities. Hydrocele patients were afraid of hydrocelectomies as they were thought to cause infertility or death. Very few community members were able to identify any home and facility-based care strategies for lymphoedema. Health system and cultural barriers to seeking healthcare included; long distances to the health facilities, lack of awareness of existing MMDP services, perceived costs of accessing MMDP services, gender and social norms, and fear of stigmatization. Health seeking behavior for LF in the district is mainly driven by negative beliefs about the causes of the disease and lack of awareness of available MMDP services and homecare strategies. Lymphatic filariasis programs should promote strategies that seek to empower patients and community members with the required information to access and use the MMDP services at the health facilities, as well as adhere to self-care practices in their households. Explanation: people living treatment men have knowledge interventions malaria transmission control communities help public not known how this can be used household needs more than intervention studies results from which we found out many other factors human resource MDrelated Dmit / In countries need high cost effective scale up coverage mass drug delivery Lblevel program data low quality these has poor uptake mobile HIV testing service provided evidence capacity development lresources mapping research country settings where impact directly linked population sub national prevalence screening will burden outcomes such affected individuals new water associated symptoms treated
The Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) orf I-encoded accessory protein p8 is cleaved from its precursor p12, and both proteins contribute to viral persistence. p8 induces cellular protrusions, which are thought to facilitate transfer of p8 to target cells and virus transmission. Host factors interacting with p8 and mediating p8 transfer are unknown. Here, we report that vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP), which promotes actin filament elongation, is a novel interaction partner of p8 and important for p8 and HTLV-1 Gag cell-to-cell transfer. VASP contains an Ena / VASP homology 1 (EVH1) domain that targets the protein to focal adhesions. Bioinformatics identified a short stretch in p8 (amino acids (aa) 24 45) which may mediate interactions with the EVH1 domain of VASP. Co-immunoprecipitations confirmed interactions of VASP: p8 in 293T, Jurkat and HTLV-1-infected MT-2 cells. Co-precipitation of VASP: p8 could be significantly blocked by peptides mimicking aa 26 37 of p8. Mutational studies revealed that the EVH1-domain of VASP is necessary, but not sufficient for the interaction with p8. Further, deletion of the VASP G- and F-actin binding domains significantly diminished co-precipitation of p8. Imaging identified areas of partial co-localization of VASP with p8 at the plasma membrane and in protrusive structures, which was confirmed by proximity ligation assays. Co-culture experiments revealed that p8 is transferred between Jurkat T-cells via VASP-containing conduits. Imaging and flow cytometry revealed that repression of both endogenous and overexpressed VASP by RNA interference or by CRISPR / Cas9 reduced p8 transfer to the cell surface and to target Jurkat T-cells. Stable repression of VASP by RNA interference in chronically infected MT-2 cells impaired both p8 and HTLV-1 Gag transfer to target Jurkat T-cells, while virus release was unaffected. Thus, we identified VASP as a novel interaction partner of p8, which is important for transfer of HTLV-1 p8 and Gag to target T-cells. Explanation: HIV infection human host expression ATL viruses can function on also known this critical role have key Kaposi's Tax associated Vit into play A found their In mechanism entry CD4 + -during these essential vsp5 Tat effects association two other required regions signaling transduction pathways such We previously results were our ability v replication specific anti integration DNA high levels nuclear import non regulatory IAP1 cancer survival t retrovirus latency transforming gene tBal transformation normal one disease mechanisms further study how many more than new functional use This regulation IL processing help
Sensory deprivation has long been known to cause hallucinations or phantom sensations, the most common of which is tinnitus induced by hearing loss, affecting 10 20% of the population. An observable hearing loss, causing auditory sensory deprivation over a band of frequencies, is present in over 90% of people with tinnitus. Existing plasticity-based computational models for tinnitus are usually driven by homeostatic mechanisms, modeled to fit phenomenological findings. Here, we use an objective-driven learning algorithm to model an early auditory processing neuronal network, e. g., in the dorsal cochlear nucleus. The learning algorithm maximizes the network s output entropy by learning the feed-forward and recurrent interactions in the model. We show that the connectivity patterns and responses learned by the model display several hallmarks of early auditory neuronal networks. We further demonstrate that attenuation of peripheral inputs drives the recurrent network towards its critical point and transition into a tinnitus-like state. In this state, the network activity resembles responses to genuine inputs even in the absence of external stimulation, namely, it hallucinates auditory responses. These findings demonstrate how objective-driven plasticity mechanisms that normally act to optimize the network s input representation can also elicit pathologies such as tinnitus as a result of sensory deprivation. Explanation: noise Tin1) brain information system neural circuits from neurons response properties changes our data process their these be sensation sound temporal hair cells firing rate cortical tonoti frequency stimuli normal function on mechanism human psychophysical loudness level perception experimental pain related more (experience time one study results self reported patients have not effects may similar but humans ability found tat those abnormal levels they percepal new knowledge about high A / there processes perceived tinus animals non functional role different between here noisy systems predicted current experiments stimulus acoustic signal pathways were
Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus (PHEV) is a highly neurotropic coronavirus belonging to the genus Betacoronavirus. Similar to pathogenic coronaviruses to which humans are susceptible, such as SARS-CoV-2, PHEV is transmitted primarily through respiratory droplets and close contact, entering the central nervous system (CNS) from the peripheral nerves at the site of initial infection. However, the neuroinvasion route of PHEV are poorly understood. Here, we found that BALB / c mice are susceptible to intranasal PHEV infection and showed distinct neurological manifestations. The behavioral study and histopathological examination revealed that PHEV attacks neurons in the CNS and causes significant smell and taste dysfunction in mice. By tracking neuroinvasion, we identified that PHEV invades the CNS via the olfactory nerve and trigeminal nerve located in the nasal cavity, and olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) were susceptible to viral infection. Immunofluorescence staining and ultrastructural observations revealed that viral materials traveling along axons, suggesting axonal transport may engage in rapid viral transmission in the CNS. Moreover, viral replication in the olfactory system and CNS is associated with inflammatory and immune responses, tissue disorganization and dysfunction. Overall, we proposed that PHEV may serve as a potential prototype for elucidating the pathogenesis of coronavirus-associated neurological complications and olfactory and taste disorders. Explanation: brain entry into mouse model viruses infected cell by infections disease severe experimental animal models human neural cells studies have neuronal this animals or more these infectious CSF well known on host specific an can be new mechanisms infect but also our data show how not receptor binding sites 1 likely A novel role it has receptors expression during neuron process spread routes crossing blood Nervous tissues where We previously reported their common use different between In experiments results suggest two important signaling pathways non function bacterial meningitis symptoms development mechanism infecting? This was bacteria high risk exposure
The regulation of glycometabolism homeostasis is vital to maintain health and development of animal and humans; however, the molecular mechanisms by which organisms regulate the glucose metabolism homeostasis from a feeding state switching to a non-feeding state are not fully understood. Using the holometabolous lepidopteran insect Helicoverpa armigera, cotton bollworm, as a model, we revealed that the steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) upregulated the expression of transcription factor Krüppel-like factor (identified as Klf15) to promote macroautophagy / autophagy, apoptosis and gluconeogenesis during metamorphosis. 20E via its nuclear receptor EcR upregulated Klf15 transcription in the fat body during metamorphosis. Knockdown of Klf15 using RNA interference delayed pupation and repressed autophagy and apoptosis of larval fat body during metamorphosis. KLF15 promoted autophagic flux and transiting to apoptosis. KLF15 bound to the KLF binding site (KLF bs) in the promoter of Atg8 (autophagy-related gene 8 / LC3) to upregulate Atg8 expression. Knockdown Atg8 reduced free fatty acids (FFAs), glycerol, free amino acids (FAAs) and glucose levels. However, knockdown of Klf15 accumulated FFAs, glycerol, and FAAs. Glycolysis was switched to gluconeogenesis, trehalose and glycogen synthesis were changed to degradation during metamorphosis, which were accompanied by the variation of the related genes expression. KLF15 upregulated phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (Pepck) expression by binding to KLF bs in the Pepck promoter for gluconeogenesis, which utilised FFAs, glycerol, and FAAs directly or indirectly to increase glucose in the hemolymph. Taken together, 20E via KLF15 integrated autophagy and gluconeogenesis by promoting autophagy-related and gluconeogenesis-related genes expression. Explanation: metabolic cells Lkthis flies midgut blood liver tissue with food starvation ketlipid energy conversion enzymes lipase digestive enzyme can be fly gut tissues ketone bodies lipids digestion cell their nutrient stored protein into diet high nutrients fed insects larvae also used these on control activation key factors 1 We when essential work against function In have increased proteins active lipde mobilization adipose triglyceride lipolysis process Drosophila adult white fruit sugar fasting associated new pathways A thus it may role at mRNA translation inhibition activity Lipal our previously known This important such studies mechanism use regulatory
The primary immunological target of COVID-19 vaccines is the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein. S is exposed on the viral surface and mediates viral entry into the host cell. To identify possible antibody binding sites, we performed multi-microsecond molecular dynamics simulations of a 4. 1 million atom system containing a patch of viral membrane with four full-length, fully glycosylated and palmitoylated S proteins. By mapping steric accessibility, structural rigidity, sequence conservation, and generic antibody binding signatures, we recover known epitopes on S and reveal promising epitope candidates for structure-based vaccine design. We find that the extensive and inherently flexible glycan coat shields a surface area larger than expected from static structures, highlighting the importance of structural dynamics. The protective glycan shield and the high flexibility of its hinges give the stalk overall low epitope scores. Our computational epitope-mapping procedure is general and should thus prove useful for other viral envelope proteins whose structures have been characterized. Explanation: to in receptor bind antibodies are glycans this by which our studies virus spikes glycoprotein receptors interactions potential important residues contact models an immune against these as infection can be glycosylation human specific conserved regions viruses glycoproteins key information also found new anti neutralizing monoclonal IgG / not used critical mutations or may help understanding model predicted here data has more such A's all but now results show study identified using it similar approaches antiviral HIV Stop infected cells Env trimeric fusion inhibitors broadly major CD4 T at gp120 trimer complex surfaces G attachment guse bound?
Impaired type I interferons (IFNs) production or signaling have been associated with severe COVID-19, further promoting the evaluation of recombinant type I IFNs as therapeutics against SARS-CoV-2 infection. In the Syrian hamster model, we show that intranasal administration of IFN-α starting one day pre-infection or one day post-infection limited weight loss and decreased viral lung titers. By contrast, intranasal administration of IFN-α starting at the onset of symptoms three days post-infection had no impact on the clinical course of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our results provide evidence that early type I IFN treatment is beneficial, while late interventions are ineffective, although not associated with signs of enhanced disease. Explanation: in a to mice antiviral response virus infected host immune responses interferon therapeutic anti human for an therapy by treatments efficacy studies our animal models protective immunity this treated respiratory infections time animals data mouse lungs were We effective therapies used previously influenza A / during pneumonia severity IAV 1 cytokines IL cell specific viruses reduced lethal experimental protection from was cytokine levels increased survival times these life can be new potential critical IThe well flu patients mortality study found use more development may two systemic inflammatory gene expression induced inflammation cells lower doses when high TNF serum level
Freshwater snails of the genera Biomphalaria, Bulinus, and Oncomelania are intermediate hosts of schistosomes that cause human schistosomiasis, one of the most significant infectious neglected diseases in the world. Identification of freshwater snails is usually based on morphology and potentially DNA-based methods, but these have many drawbacks that hamper their use. MALDI-TOF MS has revolutionised clinical microbiology and has emerged in the medical entomology field. This study aims to evaluate MALDI-TOF MS profiling for the identification of both frozen and ethanol-stored snail species using protein extracts from different body parts. A total of 530 field specimens belonging to nine species (Biomphalaria pfeifferi, Bulinus forskalii, Bulinus senegalensis, Bulinus truncatus, Bulinus globosus, Bellamya unicolor, Cleopatra bulimoides, Lymnaea natalensis, Melanoides tuberculata) and 89 laboratory-reared specimens, including three species (Bi. pfeifferi, Bu. forskalii, Bu. truncatus) were used for this study. For frozen snails, the feet of 127 field and 74 laboratory-reared specimens were used to validate the optimised MALDI-TOF MS protocol. The spectral analysis yielded intra-species reproducibility and inter-species specificity which resulted in the correct identification of all the specimens in blind queries, with log-score values greater than 1. 7. In a second step, we demonstrated that MALDI-TOF MS could also be used to identify ethanol-stored snails using proteins extracted from the foot using a specific database including a large number of ethanol preserved specimens. This study shows for the first time that MALDI-TOF MS is a reliable tool for the rapid identification of frozen and ethanol-stored freshwater snails without any malacological expertise. Explanation: molecular tools diagnostic can samples high accuracy data fingerfinger by mass spectrum library an method detection new results accurate Schistosoma infection disease transmission host parasite identified blood infected flies studies We previously PCR positive diagnostics next future unknown questions? s well known in2 years post discovery infections control approach as our novel sensitive yet not only diagnosis result more such old parasites found endemic malaria highly S bother health microscopy fyor even whole eggs genus / it remains information when applied research potential techniques development Here was screening test performance sensitivity detect same organism
Food and water-borne illness caused by ingestion of (oo) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia is one of the major health problems globally. Several methods are available to detect Giardia cyst and Cryptosporidium oocyst in food and water. Most of the available methods require a good laboratory facility and well-trained manpower and are therefore costly. There is a need of affordable and reliable method that can be easily implemented in resource limited settings. We developed a smartphone based microscopic assay method to screen (oo) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia contamination of vegetable and water samples. The method consisting of a ball lens of 1 mm diameter, white LED as illumination source and Lugols's iodine staining provided magnification and contrast capable of distinguishing (oo) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia. The analytical performance of the method was tested by spike recovery experiments. The spike recovery experiments performed on cabbage, carrot, cucumber, radish, tomatoes, and water resulted in 26. 8 ± 10. 3, 40. 1 ± 8. 5, 44. 4 ± 7. 3, 47. 6 ± 11. 3, 49. 2 ± 10. 9, and 30. 2 ± 7. 9% recovery for Cryptosporidium, respectively and 10. 2 ± 4. 0, 14. 1 ± 7. 3, 24. 2 ± 12. 1, 23. 2 ± 13. 7, 17. 1 ± 13. 9, and 37. 6 ± 2. 4% recovery for Giardia, respectively. The spike recovery results are comparable with data obtained using commercial brightfield and fluorescence microscope methods. Finally, we tested the smartphone microscope system for detecting (oo) cysts on 7 types of vegetable (n = 196) and river water (n = 18) samples. Forty-two percent vegetable and thirty-nine percent water samples were found to be contaminated with Cryptosporidium oocyst. Similarly, thirty-one percent vegetable and thirty-three percent water samples were contaminated with Giardia cyst. The newly developed smartphone microscopic method showed comparable performance to commercial microscopic methods. The new method can be a low-cost and easy to implement alternative method for simultaneous detection of (oo) cysts in vegetable and water samples in resource limited settings. Explanation: oocysts human stool microscopy parasite species identification tools used screening test have more than sensitivity limit analysis time parasitic DNA PCR positive detecs studies environmental sample an parasites from light microscopeuse diagnostic accuracy testing approach high throughput molecular tool this pathogen sampling infection level parasitof- less accurate also technology has not previously required sanitation interventions such control public drinking potable waters quality toilet vegetables disease transmission infections other when detected inpeople could improve or study environment survey community outbreak risk factors organism exposure diarrhea associated protozoan pathogens In many questions which intervention
Echinococcosis is a zoonotic parasitic disease caused by larval stages of cestodes belonging to the genus Echinococcus. The infection affects people s health and safety as well as agropastoral sector. In China, human echinococcosis is a major public health burden, especially in western China. Echinococcosis affects people health as well as agricultural and pastoral economy. Therefore, it is important to understand the prevalence status and spatial distribution of human echinococcosis in order to advance our knowledge of basic information for prevention and control measures reinforcement. Report data on echinococcosis were collected in 370 counties in China in 2018 and were used to assess prevalence and spatial distribution. SPSS 21. 0 was used to obtain the prevalence rate for CE and AE. For statistical analyses and mapping, all data were processed using SPSS 21. 0 and ArcGIS 10. 4, respectively. Chi-square test and Exact probability method were used to assess spatial autocorrelation and spatial clustering. A total of 47, 278 cases of echinococcosis were recorded in 2018 in 370 endemic counties in China. The prevalence rate of human echinococcosis was 10. 57 per 10, 000. Analysis of the disease prevalence showed obvious spatial positive autocorrelation in globle spatial autocorrelation with two aggregation modes in local spatial autocorrelation, namely high-high and low-high aggregation areas. The high-high gathering areas were mainly concentrated in northern Tibet, western Qinghai, and Ganzi in the Tibetan Autonomous Region and in Sichuan. The low-high clusters were concentrated in Gamba, Kangma and Yadong counties of Tibet. In addition, spatial scanning analysis revealed two spatial clusters. One type of spatial clusters included 71 counties in Tibet Autonomous Region, 22 counties in Qinghai, 11 counties in Sichuan, three counties in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, two counties in Yunnan, and one county in Gansu. In the second category, six types of spatial clusters were observed in the counties of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, and the Qinghai, Gansu, and Sichuan Provinces. This study showed a serious prevalence of human echinococcosis with obvious spatial aggregation of the disease prevalence in China. The Qinghai-Tibet Plateau is the "hot spot" area of human echinococcosis in China. Findings from this study indicate that there is an urgent need of joint strategies to strengthen efforts for the prevention and control of echinococcosis in China, especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Explanation: further map geographically we are) more than results cysticercosis transmission foci can be regions 1 (parasite infections across countries where cattle grazing livestock associated risk factors spatially such have at yitmaps studies which may or level geographic patterns found communities affected dogs oother diseases infected these also likely Igeese sheep hydatid cysts model kicerelated dog population within significant cluster locations; findings regional / they models provide evidence highly targeted interventions district most similar but region their coccidial echinociasis case number incidence rates between survey reported strongworm
Network-based intervention strategies can be effective and cost-efficient approaches to curtailing harmful contagions in myriad settings. As studied, these strategies are often impractical to implement, as they typically assume complete knowledge of the network structure, which is unusual in practice. In this paper, we investigate how different immunization strategies perform under realistic conditions where the strategies are informed by partially-observed network data. Our results suggest that global immunization strategies, like degree immunization, are optimal in most cases; the exception is at very high levels of missing data, where stochastic strategies, like acquaintance immunization, begin to outstrip them in minimizing outbreaks. Stochastic strategies are more robust in some cases due to the different ways in which they can be affected by missing data. In fact, one of our proposed variants of acquaintance immunization leverages a logistically-realistic ongoing survey-intervention process as a form of targeted data-recovery to improve with increasing levels of missing data. These results support the effectiveness of targeted immunization as a general practice. They also highlight the risks of considering networks as idealized mathematical objects: overestimating the accuracy of network data and foregoing the rewards of additional inquiry. Explanation: vaccination health interventions) vaccine for vaccines information model disease outbreak response system (not yet an important strategy use have such We control public infection transmission human immune prevention or their immunity time it could The when used methods from known people who other on but vaccineffectively new infections risk factors out studies models may well vaccinated against were all efforts social contact rates epidemic dynamics susceptible population impact many questions about same individuals has / s even those between two study epidemics unknown outcomes show potential work et 1 virus spread infectious diseases through countries HIV
Extracellular recording is an accessible technique used in animals and humans to study the brain physiology and pathology. As the number of recording channels and their density grows it is natural to ask how much improvement the additional channels bring in and how we can optimally use the new capabilities for monitoring the brain. Here we show that for any given distribution of electrodes we can establish exactly what information about current sources in the brain can be recovered and what information is strictly unobservable. We demonstrate this in the general setting of previously proposed kernel Current Source Density method and illustrate it with simplified examples as well as using evoked potentials from the barrel cortex obtained with a Neuropixels probe and with compatible model data. We show that with conceptual separation of the estimation space from experimental setup one can recover sources not accessible to standard methods. Explanation:, source activity neural network-by are cortical electrical potential recordings human et electric field models) The have our results on system which may also these functional connectivity between experiments high frequency EEG scalp electrode measurements signals (1 but networks large studies many more than imaging spatial localization accuracy at single channel i s task specific activation time signal local neurons active regions such has known complex systems function analysis all or when measured location sites stimulation voltage currents back two electrophysiology properties cells layer A neuronal firing rate extracellular volume blood flow out real tissue realistic
Co-infection of the four major species of human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum (Pf), P. vivax (Pv), P. malariae (Pm), and P. ovale sp. (Po) is regularly observed, but there is limited understanding of between-species interactions. In particular, little is known about the effects of multiple Plasmodium species co-infections on gametocyte production. We developed molecular assays for detecting asexual and gametocyte stages of Pf, Pv, Pm, and Po. This is the first description of molecular diagnostics for Pm and Po gametocytes. These assays were implemented in a unique epidemiological setting in Papua New Guinea with sympatric transmission of all four Plasmodium species permitting a comprehensive investigation of species interactions. The observed frequency of Pf-Pv co-infection for asexual parasites (14. 7%) was higher than expected from individual prevalence rates (23. 8% Pf x 47. 4% Pv = 11. 3%). The observed frequency of co-infection with Pf and Pv gametocytes (4. 6%) was higher than expected from individual prevalence rates (13. 1% Pf x 28. 2% Pv = 3. 7%). The excess risk of co-infection was 1. 38 (95% confidence interval (CI): 1. 09, 1. 67) for all parasites and 1. 37 (95% CI: 0. 95, 1. 79) for gametocytes. This excess co-infection risk was partially attributable to malaria infections clustering in some villages. Pf-Pv-Pm triple infections were four times more frequent than expected by chance alone, which could not be fully explained by infections clustering in highly exposed individuals. The effect of co-infection on parasite density was analyzed by systematic comparison of all pairwise interactions. This revealed a significant 6. 57-fold increase of Pm density when co-infected with Pf. Pm gametocytemia also increased with Pf co-infection. Heterogeneity in exposure to mosquitoes is a key epidemiological driver of Plasmodium co-infection. Among the four co-circulating parasites, Pm benefitted most from co-infection with other species. Beyond this, no general prevailing pattern of suppression or facilitation was identified in pairwise analysis of gametocytemia and parasitemia of the four species. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials. gov, Trial ID: NCT02143934. Explanation: that study interventions are we control blood level have cross drug combination treatment studies an s disease parasitic oo clinical use as previously health impact factors high people may new data associated these found many important now host population at where results parasitamit can knowledge complex our mechanisms through has / present knowMalaria patients carriage one years potential within distribution vector Anopheles bO parasii plasmodial development time their; increasing detection pmp oocysts pfOsuch findings mosquito life cycle model further investigations used microscopy field survey methods approach questions
Effective and powerful survival mediation models are currently lacking. To partly fill such knowledge gap, we particularly focus on the mediation analysis that includes multiple DNA methylations acting as exposures, one gene expression as the mediator and one survival time as the outcome. We proposed IUSMMT (intersection-union survival mixture-adjusted mediation test) to effectively examine the existence of mediation effect by fitting an empirical three-component mixture null distribution. With extensive simulation studies, we demonstrated the advantage of IUSMMT over existing methods. We applied IUSMMT to ten TCGA cancers and identified multiple genes that exhibited mediating effects. We further revealed that most of the identified regions, in which genes behaved as active mediators, were cancer type-specific and exhibited a full mediation from DNA methylation CpG sites to the survival risk of various types of cancers. Overall, IUSMMT represents an effective and powerful alternative for survival mediation analysis; our results also provide new insights into the functional role of DNA methylation and gene expression in cancer progression / prognosis and demonstrate potential therapeutic targets for future clinical practice. Explanation: cell is with disease mechanism these may be The important pathways data this cells can study have more biological process model how many factors response mechanisms through known molecular US patients outcomes cause human health or treatment associated genetic association between findings novel epigenetic transforming ability molecules 1 pathway their not found common underlying where it predict drug use experimental drugs development targeted therapies target those could previously non small genome tumor has used treatments responses using In et al Our mechanistic understanding s well evidence causal signaling network breast Cancer key Usome same diseases prognostic information about This
Environment shapes development through a phenomenon called developmental plasticity. Deciphering its genetic basis has potential to shed light on the origin of novel traits and adaptation to environmental change. However, molecular studies are scarce, and little is known about molecular mechanisms associated with plasticity. We investigated the gene regulatory network controlling predatory vs. non-predatory dimorphism in the nematode Pristionchus pacificus and found that it consists of genes of extremely different age classes. We isolated mutants in the conserved nuclear hormone receptor nhr-1 with previously unseen phenotypic effects. They disrupt mouth-form determination and result in animals combining features of both wild-type morphs. In contrast, mutants in another conserved nuclear hormone receptor nhr-40 display altered morph ratios, but no intermediate morphology. Despite divergent modes of control, NHR-1 and NHR-40 share transcriptional targets, which encode extracellular proteins that have no orthologs in Caenorhabditis elegans and result from lineage-specific expansions. An array of transcriptional reporters revealed co-expression of all tested targets in the same pharyngeal gland cell. Major morphological changes in this gland cell accompanied the evolution of teeth and predation, linking rapid gene turnover with morphological innovations. Thus, the origin of feeding plasticity involved novelty at the level of genes, cells and behavior. Explanation: evolved by evolutionary new for we can) response these an as phenotypes regulation pathways may be more our function A (not yet their evolve signaling system use similar organisms ability important process how many other responses The complex food production results when they also such mechanism into model gut bacteria species develop us systems could or natural selection environment factors role unknown prey trophic animal life behaviors patterns et functional most well understanding biological networks human body shape variation trait's ecological arms thus study provide key adaptive predator fish host resistance ant disease / pest nature populations
Mitochondria are vital organelles inside the cell and contribute to intracellular calcium (Ca2 +) dynamics directly and indirectly via calcium exchange, ATP generation, and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Arrhythmogenic Ca2 + alternans in cardiac myocytes has been observed in experiments under abnormal mitochondrial depolarization. However, complex signaling pathways and Ca2 + cycling between mitochondria and cytosol make it difficult in experiments to reveal the underlying mechanisms of Ca2 + alternans under abnormal mitochondrial depolarization. In this study, we use a newly developed spatiotemporal ventricular myocyte computer model that integrates mitochondrial Ca2 + cycling and complex signaling pathways to investigate the mechanisms of Ca2 + alternans during mitochondrial depolarization. We find that elevation of ROS in response to mitochondrial depolarization plays a critical role in promoting Ca2 + alternans. Further examination reveals that the redox effect of ROS on ryanodine receptors and sarco / endoplasmic reticulum Ca2 + -ATPase synergistically promote alternans. Upregulation of mitochondrial Ca2 + uniporter promotes Ca2 + alternans via Ca2 + -dependent mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening. Due to their relatively slow kinetics, oxidized Ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation and ATP do not play significant roles acutely in the genesis of Ca2 + alternans after mitochondrial depolarization, but their roles can be significant in the long term, mainly through their effects on sarco / endoplasmic reticulum Ca2 + -ATPase activity. In conclusion, mitochondrial depolarization promotes Ca2 + alternans acutely via the redox effect of ROS and chronically by ATP reduction. It suppresses Ca2 + alternans chronically through oxidized Ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation. Explanation: Ca heart rate is beat with et cells electrical coupling ion remodeling arrhythmogenic potential an may or too many more for our results from mechanism oxidative phosphorylation energy metabolic changes at function as high voltage regulation pump current which disease important normal action cause increased risk arrhythmias time also 1 proteins out these found different hearts conditions have arrhythmia induced electric waves excitation coupled non death all data The arrythsuch beating frequency pacing cycle AF fibrillation vulnerable sinus rhythm EF Calcium sparRySR work beats when dysfunction L sarcoplasmic regulatory control power develop new molecular dynamic
Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) is a zoonosis characterized by clinical features of high fever, hemorrhage, and renal damage. China has the largest number of HFRS cases worldwide, accounting for over 90% of the total reported cases. In this paper, we used surveyed HFRS data and satellite imagery to conduct geostatistical analysis for investigating the associations of rapid urbanization, water bodies, and other factors on the spatiotemporal dynamics of HFRS from year 2005 to 2018 in Xi an City, Northwest China. The results revealed an evident epidemic aggregation in the incidence of HFRS within Xi an City with a phenomenal fluctuation in periodic time series. Rapid urbanization was found to greatly affect the HFRS incidence in two different time phases. HFRS caused by urbanization influences farmers to a lesser extent than it does to non-farmers. The association of water bodies with the HFRS incidence rate was found to be higher within the radii of 696. 15 m and 1575. 39 m, which represented significant thresholds. The results also showed that geomatics approaches can be used for spatiotemporally investigating the HFRS dynamic characteristics and supporting effective allocations of resources to formulate strategies for preventing epidemics. Explanation: spatial disease risk human health system landscape scale are have regions 1 models were more areas distribution patterns land use / A study transmission potential urban development as such where model developed area population outbreak public severe associated diseases occurrence hman exposure infection rates could geographic information systems into our findings local ecological level studies climate predicted outbreaks during maps but years between surveillance temporal weather seasonal virus activity specific events large cities may or modeling methods spatially these endemic countries sites prevalence at epidemiological case mortality burden geographically new people's We cause highly likely region infections global
Helicobacter pylori chronically infects the stomach of approximately half of the world s population. Manifestation of clinical diseases associated with H. pylori infection, including cancer, is driven by strain properties and host responses; and as chronic infection persists, both are subject to change. Previous studies have documented frequent and extensive within-host bacterial genetic variation. To define how within-host diversity contributes to phenotypes related to H. pylori pathogenesis, this project leverages a collection of 39 clinical isolates acquired prospectively from a single subject at two time points and from multiple gastric sites. During the six years separating collection of these isolates, this individual, initially harboring a duodenal ulcer, progressed to gastric atrophy and concomitant loss of acid secretion. Whole genome sequence analysis identified 1, 767 unique single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) across isolates and a nucleotide substitution rate of 1. 3x10-4 substitutions / site / year. Gene ontology analysis identified cell envelope genes among the genes with excess accumulation of nonsynonymous SNPs (nSNPs). A maximum likelihood tree based on genetic similarity clusters isolates from each time point separately. Within time points, there is segregation of subgroups with phenotypic differences in bacterial morphology, ability to induce inflammatory cytokines, and mouse colonization. Higher inflammatory cytokine induction in recent isolates maps to shared polymorphisms in the Cag PAI protein, CagY, while rod morphology in a subgroup of recent isolates mapped to eight mutations in three distinct helical cell shape determining (csd) genes. The presence of subgroups with unique genetic and phenotypic properties suggest complex selective forces and multiple niches within the stomach during chronic infection. Explanation: that bacteria strains virulence factors disease for more common we found important human vacS an immune response mechanisms IL 2 study may be mucosal inflammation specific variants infections which infecting groups intestinal pathogenic role et mucosa different pathogens has our results gene expression data many other than infected patients can model organisms similar cells type their such In vivo gut also known bacterium interactions between development high risk association novel pathways We mice evolution selected proteins system one explain findings previously health conditions were mechanism into observed changes susceptibility gastrointestinal ulcers pathogen's well studied models understanding but not
Soil-transmitted helminth (STH) infections cause significant morbidity in children and women of reproductive age. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends preventive chemotherapy (PC) of at-risk populations with anthelminthics to control these infections. Historically, STH are very intensively transmitted in Pemba Island (Zanzibar). A survey conducted in 1994 in 12 schools estimated a STH prevalence near to 100%. This extremely high prevalence induced the introduction of PC in the island; initially, however, PC was not regularly administered because of difficulties linked to drug procurement. A second STH survey, conducted in 2011, in 24 schools estimated a prevalence of STH of 89%; after this survey, PC was regularly administered until 2018. We conducted a survey in 2021 using the same method as that used in 2011. The prevalence of STH was evaluated at 80% (95% CI 78. 1 81. 5) and most of the STH cases were due to Trichuris trichiura. More than 32% (95% CI 30. 3 34. 0) of the children investigated had infections of moderate or heavy intensity. PC has been conducted for over 25 years in Pemba Island. However, despite its beneficial impact, both the prevalence and the intensity of STH infections remain high, and the intervention has been insufficient in controlling STH morbidity. This is probably due to a combination of irregular PC, climatic conditions favourable to STH transmission, the low sensitivity of T. trichiura to benzimidazoles, high population density and poor sanitation. Improvement of sanitation coverage remains a key measure to permanently reduce the prevalence and intensity of STH. Possible changes to the present PC approaches to better control STH in Pemba would be (i) to assure high coverage in all schools, (ii) to use mebendazole instead of albendazole given its better activity on T. trichiura and (iii) to use a combination of ivermectin and mebendazole to further increase anthelminthic efficacy on T. trichiura. Explanation: mass treatment community health interventions Ascaris infection Iparasitic communities have an anthelmintic studies parasite burden disease elimination programme effective school year parasitiasis endehelminstrongS endemic level tm results worasinpeople strategies we can reduction by strategy worm cure public ascitmore current schistosomiasis praziquantel treated one study area hookworms management it important but also new tricywhere such annual soil highly integrated dehuman water giasis associated parasites treatments approach programmes may other / In reduced their snail koneggs schistmansoni infected levels AS4 drugs
Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a re-emerging mosquito-borne alphavirus, which has rapidly spread around the globe thereby causing millions of infections. CHIKV is an enveloped virus belonging to the Togaviridae family and enters its host cell primarily via clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Upon internalization, the endocytic vesicle containing the virus particle moves through the cell and delivers the virus to early endosomes where membrane fusion is observed. Thereafter, the nucleocapsid dissociates and the viral RNA is translated into proteins. In this study, we examined the importance of the microtubule network during the early steps of infection and dissected the intracellular trafficking behavior of CHIKV particles during cell entry. We observed two distinct CHIKV intracellular trafficking patterns prior to membrane hemifusion. Whereas half of the CHIKV virions remained static during cell entry and fused in the cell periphery, the other half showed fast-directed microtubule-dependent movement prior to delivery to Rab5-positive early endosomes and predominantly fused in the perinuclear region of the cell. Disruption of the microtubule network reduced the number of infected cells. At these conditions, membrane hemifusion activity was not affected yet fusion was restricted to the cell periphery. Furthermore, follow-up experiments revealed that disruption of the microtubule network impairs the delivery of the viral genome to the cell cytosol. We therefore hypothesize that microtubules may direct the particle to a cellular location that is beneficial for establishing infection or aids in nucleocapsid uncoating. Explanation: by are viruses exit from cargo receptor binding protein with be transport vesicles endosome system endosomal release it as virion enter / process endat use small coat assembly on their receptors internalized model studies also our new filopt envelope post dynamin coated membranes traffic EVs key role but more likely mechanism uptake non infectious human have taken EV many used how large vacuoles formation can newly envelA thus The known function DENV replication intermediate processing pathways vesicular eng1 novel mechanisms deliver required both were previously dengue disease transmission? data shown here they all such
In order to adjust to changing environmental conditions, bacteria use nucleotide second messengers to transduce external signals and translate them into a specific cellular response. Cyclic di-adenosine monophosphate (c-di-AMP) is the only known essential nucleotide second messenger. In addition to the well-established role of this second messenger in the control of potassium homeostasis, we observed that glutamate is as toxic as potassium for a c-di-AMP-free strain of the Gram-positive model bacterium Bacillus subtilis. In this work, we isolated suppressor mutants that allow growth of a c-di-AMP-free strain under these toxic conditions. Characterization of glutamate resistant suppressors revealed that they contain pairs of mutations, in most cases affecting glutamate and potassium homeostasis. Among these mutations, several independent mutations affected a novel glutamate transporter, AimA (Amino acid importer A, formerly YbeC). This protein is the major transporter for glutamate and serine in B. subtilis. Unexpectedly, some of the isolated suppressor mutants could suppress glutamate toxicity by a combination of mutations that affect phospholipid biosynthesis and a specific gain-of-function mutation of a mechanosensitive channel of small conductance (YfkC) resulting in the acquisition of a device for glutamate export. Cultivation of the c-di-AMP-free strain on complex medium was an even greater challenge because the amounts of potassium, glutamate, and other osmolytes are substantially higher than in minimal medium. Suppressor mutants viable on complex medium could only be isolated under anaerobic conditions if one of the two c-di-AMP receptor proteins, DarA or DarB, was absent. Also on complex medium, potassium and osmolyte toxicity are the major bottlenecks for the growth of B. subtilis in the absence of c-di-AMP. Our results indicate that the essentiality of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis is caused by the global impact of the second messenger nucleotide on different aspects of cellular physiology. Explanation: cells with signal regulation bacterial stress tolerance mechanisms cell ability et also previously found genes expression strains have regulatory factors signaling pathways their responses regulators binding activity unknown which can As new mechanism transporters membrane ion ATP energy metabolic key more important The nutrient uptake system transport systems not yet We it critical our studies how intracellular K + ions changes when used DNA synthesis / s activation d high salt osmotic out many such Dosans survival at first Escherichia coli mutant production stresses effects gene transcription factor 1 secretion from required water active sensing regulator respond signalling
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) causes lymphomas and epithelial cell cancers. Though generally silent in B lymphocytes, this widely prevalent virus can cause endemic Burkitt lymphoma and post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders / lymphomas in immunocompromised hosts. By learning how EBV breaches barriers to cell proliferation, we hope to undermine those strategies to treat EBV lymphomas and potentially other cancers. We had previously found that EBV, through activation of cellular STAT3 prevents phosphorylation of Chk1, and thereby, suppresses activation of the intra-S phase cell-cycle checkpoint, a potent barrier to oncogene-driven proliferation. This observation prompted us to examine the consequences on DNA repair since homologous recombination repair, the most error-free form, requires phosphoChk1. We now report that the defect in Chk1 phosphorylation also curtails RAD51 nucleation, and thereby, homologous recombination repair of DNA double strand breaks. The resulting reliance on error-prone microhomology-mediated end-joining (MMEJ) repair makes EBV-transformed cells susceptible to PARP inhibition and simultaneous accrual of genome-wide deletions and insertions resulting from synthesis-dependent MMEJ. Analysis of transcriptomic and drug susceptibility data from hundreds of cancer lines reveals a STAT3-dependent gene-set predictive of susceptibility of cancers to synthetic lethal PARP inhibition. These findings i) demonstrate how the tumor virus EBV re-shapes cellular DNA repair, ii) provide the first genome-wide evidence for insertions resulting from MMEJ in human cells, and iii) expand the range of cancers (EBV-related and -unrelated) that are likely to respond to synthetic lethal inhibitors given the high prevalence of cancers with constitutively active STAT3. Explanation: is by response viral replication fork damage DSBs break induced mutations 1 genes have an as mechanisms these lesions sites may radiation sensitivity ATM kinase ataxia telangiectasia mutated p53 protein complex ATR DDR signaling pathways responses damaged non function et more genetic studies which our model 2 novel KSHV Bat host survival viruses proteins kinases H2AX KykirA their or infection defective IL JAK JAKs critical such treatment anti HSV associated herpes Kaposi's oncogenic γherpesvirus infected patients sensitive tumors mechanism next targeted therapeutic approaches killing has unique ability use drugs targeting vam
Buruli ulcer is one of the 20 neglected tropical diseases in the world. This necrotizing hypodermitis is a chronic debilitating disease caused by an environmental Mycobacterium ulcerans. At least 33 countries with tropical, subtropical and temperate climates have reported Buruli ulcer in African countries, South America and Western Pacific regions. Majority of cases are spread across West and Central Africa. The mode of transmission is unclear, hindering the implementation of adequate prevention for the population. Currently, early diagnosis and treatment are crucial to minimizing morbidity, costs and preventing long-term disability. Biological confirmation of clinical diagnosis of Buruli ulcer is essential before starting chemotherapy. Indeed, differential diagnosis are numerous and Buruli ulcer has varying clinical presentations. Up to now, the gold standard biological confirmation is the quantitative PCR, targeting the insertion sequence IS2404 of M. ulcerans performed on cutaneous samples. Due to the low PCR confirmation rate in endemic African countries (under 30% in 2018) for numerous identified reasons within this article, 11 laboratories decided to combine their efforts to create the network BU-LABNET in 2019. The first step of the network was to harmonize the procedures and ship specific reagents to each laboratory. With this system in place, implementation of these procedures for testing and follow-up was easy and the laboratories were able to carry out their first quality control with a very high success rate. It is now time to integrate other neglected tropical diseases to this platform, such as yaws or leprosy. Explanation: diagnostic skin lesions that results infection molecular tools test patients microscopy tuberculosis DNA detection TB1 studies country more accurate but we can be new method use? In result data global health systems tool used diagnostics TB / not methods from underscale A sensitivity screening large number ulcers work analysis byears study findings in2 model all twater level infections case prevalence among people's -it tests accuracy next unknown species identification also found our research questions which further investigations could been previously knowledge between patient treated drug sensitive two interventions effective treatments cure outcomes
The co-localization of Cluster-of-Differentiation-44 protein (CD44) and cytoplasmic adaptors in specific membrane environments is crucial for cell adhesion and migration. The process is controlled by two different pathways: On the one hand palmitoylation keeps CD44 in lipid raft domains and disables the linking to the cytoplasmic adaptor, whereas on the other hand, the presence of phosphatidylinositol-4, 5-biphosphate (PIP2) lipids accelerates the formation of the CD44-adaptor complex. The molecular mechanism explaining how CD44 is migrating into and out of the lipid raft domains and its dependence on both palmitoylations and the presence of PIP2 remains, however, elusive. In this study, we performed extensive molecular dynamics simulations to study the raft affinity and translocation of CD44 in phase separated model membranes as well as more realistic plasma membrane environments. We observe a delicate balance between the influence of the palmitoylations and the presence of PIP2 lipids: whereas the palmitoylations of CD44 increases the affinity for raft domains, PIP2 lipids have the opposite effect. Additionally, we studied the association between CD44 and the membrane adaptor FERM in dependence of these factors. We find that the presence of PIP2 lipids allows CD44 and FERM to associate in an experimentally observed binding mode whereas the highly palmitoylated species shows no binding affinity. Together, our results shed light on the sophisticated mechanism on how membrane translocation and peripheral protein association can be controlled by both protein modifications and membrane composition. Explanation: 2 receptors signaling molecules are receptor with which cells surface proteins interactions studies also function regulation signal pathway cancer associated phosphorylation activation or such important role it may found their ligand interaction 1 / A new link hyaluronan Hyal6 HA high expression tumor growth signals cellular activity has linker cluster key regulatory Yregulated IL 3 tyrosine kinase intracellular domain from hyaluronic acidic use ability critical Src kinases signalling mechanisms control novel small Hal type but not previously shown data This they play Janus JAK JAKs JAK2 activating molecule bind Imany were known regulate STAT3 active
Collective living systems regularly achieve cooperative emergent functions that individual organisms could not accomplish alone. The rafts of fire ants (Solenopsis invicta) are often studied in this context for their ability to create aggregated structures comprised entirely of their own bodies, including tether-like protrusions that facilitate exploration of and escape from flooded environments. While similar protrusions are observed in cytoskeletons and cellular aggregates, they are generally dependent on morphogens or external gradients leaving the isolated role of local interactions poorly understood. Here we demonstrate through an ant-inspired, agent-based numerical model how protrusions in ant rafts may emerge spontaneously due to local interactions. The model is comprised of a condensed structural network of agents that represents the monolayer of interconnected worker ants, which floats on the water and gives ant rafts their form. Experimentally, this layer perpetually contracts, which we capture through the pairwise contraction of all neighboring structural agents at a strain rate of d ˙. On top of the structural layer, we model a dispersed, on-lattice layer of motile agents that represents free ants, which walk on top of the floating network. Experimentally, these self-propelled free ants walk with some mean persistence length and speed that we capture through an ant-inspired phenomenological model. Local interactions occur between neighboring free ants within some radius of detection, R, and the persistence length of freely active agents is tuned through a noise parameter, η as introduced by the Vicsek model. Both R and η where fixed to match the experimental trajectories of free ants. Treadmilling of the raft occurs as agents transition between the structural and free layers in accordance with experimental observations. Ultimately, we demonstrate how phases of exploratory protrusion growth may be induced by increased ant activity as characterized by a dimensionless parameter, A. These results provide an example in which functional morphogenesis of a living system may emerge purely from local interactions at the constituent length scale, thereby providing a source of inspiration for the development of decentralized, autonomous active matter and swarm robotics. Explanation: cells locomotion behavior cell shape patterns can process networks dynamics models 1 complex biological motion such We have mechanism et our experiments data analysis different molecules properties it behaviors directed chemical time evolution nature more than molecular walking large size able bacteria chemotaxis attracts motility but also found actin cytoskeleton proteins signaling pathways interaction social amoeba well collective many other mechanisms information control groups In physical / F us mobile activities has processes one structure out function previously known formation thus bacterial colony organization into pattern shapes study used regions work As yet two types small molecule regulation same
Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus Say (Cx. quinquefasciatus) and Culex pipiens form molestus Forskal (Cx. molestus) in the Culex pipiens complex group show considerable differences in host seeking, blood feeding, mating behavior and in vector competence. Blood-feeding mosquito behaviors are closely related to their olfactory gene expression and olfactory gene repertoire composition. Comparing olfactory genes between these two subspecies with significantly different blood-feeding behaviors can support further research on the molecular mechanism of the Culex pipiens complex olfactory sensory system, providing a new approach for determining candidate attractant or repellent compounds. Non-blood-feeding (NBF) and post-blood-feeding (PBF) olfactory system transcriptomes of the two subspecies were sequenced, and the biological functions of their differentially expressed genes were described by bioinformatics analysis. A quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was applied to validate the RNA-seq data. The roles of particular olfactory receptors in Cx. quinquefasciatus blood-feeding behaviors were evaluated by RNAi. Five, 7, 24, and 3 Cx. quinquefasciatus-specific OBPs, Cx. molestus-specific OBPs, Cx. quinquefasciatus-specific ORs and Cx. molestus-specific ORs were identified, respectively. The majority of selected ORs were consistent with the predicted transcriptome sequencing results after qRT-PCR validation. OR5 was expressed only in Cx. quinquefasciatus, and OR65 was the only gene upregulated after blood feeding in Cx. molestus. The blood-feeding rates of the OR5 and OR78 dsRNA groups were significantly lower (4. 3% ± 3. 1% and 13. 3% ± 11. 5%) than those of the enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) group (64. 5% ± 8. 7%). Most OBPs and ORs were expressed in both subspecies but showed divergence in expression level. OR5 and OR65 might be species-specific expressed genes that regulate the olfactory behaviors of Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. molestus, respectively. The RNA interference of OR5 and OR78 could inhibit the blood-feeding behavior of Cx. quinquefasciatus, providing new targets for screening effective repellent compounds to control mosquito-borne diseases effectively and efficiently. Explanation: mosquitoes we used oinsecticide resistance against this lethal Oaegypti gambiae flies studies have previously our is an insecticides binding receptor proteins We found novel non conserved target In response function as potential use insect pest An. kBet human bloodbiting Cx0more important model fly's such study may not known This when key C × Aedes AwlDNA 2 knockdown Anopheles development time killing effect s As well other insects / Our understanding role from essential Drosophila melanogaster malaria transmission disease resistant? -responses interactions ligand high functional genetic inj
During the exploration of novel environments, place fields are rapidly formed in hippocampal CA1 neurons. Place cell firing rate increases in early stages of exploration of novel environments but returns to baseline levels in familiar environments. Although similar in amplitude and width, place fields in familiar environments are more stable than in novel environments. We propose a computational model of the hippocampal CA1 network, which describes the formation, dynamics and stabilization of place fields. We show that although somatic disinhibition is sufficient to form place fields, dendritic inhibition along with synaptic plasticity is necessary for place field stabilization. Our model suggests that place cell stability can be attributed to strong excitatory synaptic weights and strong dendritic inhibition. We show that the interplay between somatic and dendritic inhibition balances the increased excitatory weights, such that place cells return to their baseline firing rate after exploration. Our model suggests that different types of interneurons are essential to unravel the mechanisms underlying place field plasticity. Finally, we predict that artificially induced dendritic events can shift place fields even after place field stabilization. Explanation: spatial hippocampus-activity this new learning by how information use these as rats behavior patterns brain networks) during data neural models have our neuronal properties on when found memory system (from structure into function important time an ability places environment may also known behaviors learn temporal one specific regions where it same or not previously knowledge space explore potential role at map representations used location future cognitive maps approach systems The animals using results here experience changes were rat Hippocampus response areas activation studied neuron integrate local entorhinal cortex pyramidal recurrent CA3 input synapses long way
Molecular xenomonitoring (MX), the detection of parasite nucleic acid in the vector population, is recommended for onchocerciasis surveillance in elimination settings. However, the sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive communities has not previously been evaluated. MX may have additional applications for control programmes but its utility is restricted by a limited understanding of the relationship between MX results and human prevalence. We conducted a systematic review of studies reporting the prevalence of Onchocerca volvulus DNA in wild-caught Simulium spp. flies (MX rate) and corresponding prevalence of microfilaria (mf) in humans. We evaluated the sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive communities and describe the characteristics of studies with reduced sensitivity. We conducted a linear regression to evaluate the relationship between mf prevalence and MX rate. We identified 15 relevant studies, with 13 studies comprising 34 study communities included in the quantitative analyses. Most communities were at advanced stages towards elimination and had no or extremely low human prevalence. MX detected positive flies in every study area with > 1% mf prevalence, with the exception of one study conducted in the Venezuelan Amazonian focus. We identified a significant relationship between the two measurements, with mf prevalence accounting for half of the variation in MX rate (R2 0. 50, p < 0. 001). MX is sensitive to communities with ongoing onchocerciasis transmission. It has potential to predict human mf prevalence, but further data is required to understand this relationship, particularly from MX surveys conducted earlier in control programmes before transmission has been interrupted. Explanation: that mapping areas where we are community health interventions impact on disease endemic countries level The as screening tools can lymphatic filarial LF endem people high risk foci populations intervention these ivermectin mass distribution programme will be more treatment scale A new strategies use In years after survey findings could field arms cross infection burden which villages known other such was lower than when should future epidemiological research questions testing / s molecular diagnostic methods used microscopy negative man's test detect parasites species fly vectors presence it same tool found evidence using information system now knowledge how many
Deposition of complement factors on Mycobacterium leprae may enhance phagocytosis. Such deposition may occur through the lectin pathway of complement. Three proteins of the lectin pathway are produced from the gene MASP1: Mannan-binding lectin-associated serine protease 1 (MASP-1) and MASP-3 and mannan-binding lectin-associated protein of 44 kDa (MAp44). Despite their obvious importance, the roles played by these proteins have never been investigated in leprosy disease. We haplotyped five MASP1 polymorphisms by multiplex sequence-specific PCR (intronic rs7609662 * G > A and rs13064994 * C > T, exon 12 3 -untranslated rs72549262 * C > G, rs1109452 * C > T and rs850314 * G > A) and measured MASP-1, MASP-3 and MAp44 serum levels in 196 leprosy patients (60%, lepromatous) and 193 controls. Lower MASP-3 and MAp44 levels were observed in patients, compared with controls (P = 0. 0002 and P < 0. 0001, respectively) and in lepromatous, compared with non-lepromatous patients (P = 0. 008 and P = 0. 002, respectively). Higher MASP-3 levels were present in controls carrying variants / haplotypes associated with leprosy resistance (rs13064994 * T, rs1109452 _ rs850314 * CG within GT _ CCG and rs850314 * A: OR = 0. 5 0. 6, Pcorr = 0. 01 0. 04). Controls with rs1109452 * T, included in susceptibility haplotypes (GT _ GTG / GT _ CTG: OR = 2. 0, Pcorr = 0. 03), had higher MASP-1 and lower MASP-3 levels (P ≤ 0. 009). Those with GC _ CCG, presented increasing susceptibility (OR = 1. 7, Pcorr = 0. 006) and higher MAp44 levels (P = 0. 015). MASP-3 expression decreased in patients, compared with controls carrying rs1109452 _ rs850314 * CA or CG (P ≤ 0. 02), which may rely on exon 12 CpG methylation and / or miR-2861 / miR-3181 mRNA binding. Polymorphisms regulating MASP-3 / MAp44 availability in serum modulate leprosy susceptibility, underlining the importance of lectin pathway regulation against pathogens that exploit phagocytosis to parasitize host macrophages. Explanation: a for immune cells high protective role is genes HIV infection tuberculosis interaction studies genetic association SNPs DNA molecules cell surface we previously found this susceptible individuals risk IL 10 regulatory pathways -immunity complex interactions between bacterial killing bacteria invasion pathogenic mechanisms more important signaling human mannose recognition Aas B entry into M factor S antigens vaccine development The not known function antibodies response can be infections study also SP4 bind IgE anti CD4 + IgG ait results skin related antigen processing pathogen our subjects protection those vaccination at bacillus control infected macrophage production they play
Nongenetic phenotypic variation can either speed up or slow down adaptive evolution. We show that it can speed up evolution in environments where available carbon and energy sources change over time. To this end, we use an experimentally validated model of Escherichia coli growth on two alternative carbon sources, glucose and acetate. On the superior carbon source (glucose), all cells achieve high growth rates, while on the inferior carbon source (acetate) only a small fraction of the population manages to initiate growth. Consequently, populations experience a bottleneck when the environment changes from the superior to the inferior carbon source. Growth on the inferior carbon source depends on a circuit under the control of a transcription factor that is repressed in the presence of the superior carbon source. We show that noise in the expression of this transcription factor can increase the probability that cells start growing on the inferior carbon source. In doing so, it can decrease the severity of the bottleneck and increase mean population fitness whenever this fitness is low. A modest amount of noise can also enhance the fitness effects of a beneficial allele that increases the fraction of a population initiating growth on acetate. Additionally, noise can protect this allele from extinction, accelerate its spread, and increase its likelihood of going to fixation. Central to the adaptation-enhancing principle we identify is the ability of noise to mitigate population bottlenecks, particularly in environments that fluctuate periodically. Because such bottlenecks are frequent in fluctuating environments, and because periodically fluctuating environments themselves are common, this principle may apply to a broad range of environments and organisms. Explanation: more for with bacteria strains selection conditions these mutations rate their as be which by how many genes have evolved response environmental factors not results important but our system one specific mutation effect different gene they same between even cell production niche at species global average effective strategies et The bacterial survival capacity limit nutrient starvation life times evolutionary new mechanisms used metabolic mutant advantage single strain nature stress tolerance mutants increasing thus has some previously found out wild type systems well known key enzymes regulation pathways responses those often other mechanism provide higher than natural food nutrients cellular performance
Arthropod-borne viruses infect both mosquito and mammalian hosts. While much is known about virus-host interactions that modulate viral gene expression in their mammalian host, much less is known about the interactions that involve inhibition, subversion or avoidance strategies in the mosquito host. A novel RNA-Protein interaction detection assay was used to detect proteins that directly or indirectly bind to dengue viral genomes in infected mosquito cells. Membrane-associated mosquito proteins Sec61A1 and Loquacious (Loqs) were found to be in complex with the viral RNA. Depletion analysis demonstrated that both Sec61A1 and Loqs have pro-viral functions in the dengue viral infectious cycle. Co-localization and pull-down assays showed that Loqs interacts with viral protein NS3 and both full-length and subgenomic viral RNAs. While Loqs coats the entire positive-stranded viral RNA, it binds selectively to the 3 end of the negative-strand of the viral genome. In-depth analyses showed that the absence of Loqs did not affect translation or turnover of the viral RNA but modulated viral replication. Loqs also displayed pro-viral functions for several flaviviruses in infected mosquito cells, suggesting a conserved role for Loqs in flavivirus-infected mosquito cells. Explanation: are this an infection cell we as these by o1 The function antiviral against can cellular factors binding studies on essential genes from previously identified human DENV nonstructural NS5 / disease transmission mosquitoes lethal infections may during which our work aegypti life system has important new mechanisms use specific critical roles other two more study Here insect model systems how such We shown at where results suggest many different between process control anti response fyThis type non functional key molecules required mRNA eukaryotic Sone; -when small interfering RNAi target they mRNAs + 2
Temporal environmental variations affect diversity in communities of competing populations. In particular, the covariance between competition and environment is known to facilitate invasions of rare species via the storage effect. Here we present a quantitative study of the effects of temporal variations in two-species and in diverse communities. Four scenarios are compared: environmental variations may be either periodic (seasonal) or stochastic, and the dynamics may support the storage effect (global competition) or not (local competition). In two-species communities, coexistence is quantified via the mean time to absorption, and we show that stochastic variations yield shorter persistence time because they allow for rare sequences of bad years. In diverse communities, where the steady-state reflects a colonization-extinction equilibrium, the actual number of temporal niches is shown to play a crucial role. When this number is large, the same trends hold: storage effect and periodic variations increase both species richness and the evenness of the community. Surprisingly, when the number of temporal niches is small global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness, as it focuses the competition to specific periods, thus increasing the effective fitness differences. Explanation: more our patterns can different but with which these common resources niche evolution neutral model organisms have an ecological networks ecosystem systems ecosystems system their such conservation strategies by processes interactions many other important biodiversity results from resource spatial models evolutionary process natural food trophic network some also occur changes population life cycles nature biological mechanisms We insurvival capacity how well responses on those conditions variation selection The even information regulation biotic stability trait eco new types has similar environments at there potential management control sites habitats were response under climate change rates ability studies landscape ant A /
Functional non-coding (fnc) RNAs are nucleotide sequences of varied lengths, structures, and mechanisms that ubiquitously influence gene expression and translation, genome stability and dynamics, and human health and disease. Here, to shed light on their functional determinants, we seek to exploit the evolutionary record of variation and divergence read from sequence comparisons. The approach follows the phylogenetic Evolutionary Trace (ET) paradigm, first developed and extensively validated on proteins. We assigned a relative rank of importance to every base in a study of 1070 functional RNAs, including the ribosome, and observed evolutionary patterns strikingly similar to those seen in proteins, namely, (1) the top-ranked bases clustered in secondary and tertiary structures. (2) In turn, these clusters mapped functional regions for catalysis, binding proteins and drugs, post-transcriptional modification, and deleterious mutations. (3) Moreover, the quantitative quality of these clusters correlated with the identification of functional regions. (4) As a result of this correlation, smoother structural distributions of evolutionary important nucleotides improved functional site predictions. Thus, in practice, phylogenetic analysis can broadly identify functional determinants in RNA sequences and functional sites in RNA structures, and reveal details on the basis of RNA molecular functions. As example of application, we report several previously undocumented and potentially functional ET nucleotide clusters in the ribosome. This work is broadly relevant to studies of structure-function in ribonucleic acids. Additionally, this generalization of ET shows that evolutionary constraints among sequence, structure, and function are similar in structured RNA and proteins. RNA ET is currently available as part of the ET command-line package, and will be available as a web-server. Explanation: conserved residues et predicted by protein data found essential biological information conservation results genes regulatory network key known which have not yet our critical or across evolution related enzymes active / how many such A new methods used often also more than identified evolutionarily it may well experimental evidence all potential mechanism tRNA selection likely tRNAs an studied experimentally small ribosomal DNA thus; but has been functionally involved cell specific were shown they predict tmRNA editing guide enzyme catalytic de rRNA target highly edited positions where could recently large one novel genetic diseases mutation eat cells ability
We investigate the source detection problem in epidemiology, which is one of the most important issues for control of epidemics. Mathematically, we reformulate the problem as one of identifying the relevant component in a multivariate Gaussian mixture model. Focusing on the study of cholera and diseases with similar modes of transmission, we calibrate the parameters of our mixture model using human mobility networks within a stochastic, spatially explicit epidemiological model for waterborne disease. Furthermore, we adopt a Bayesian perspective, so that prior information on source location can be incorporated (e. g., reflecting the impact of local conditions). Posterior-based inference is performed, which permits estimates in the form of either individual locations or regions. Importantly, our estimator only requires first-arrival times of the epidemic by putative observers, typically located only at a small proportion of nodes. The proposed method is demonstrated within the context of the 2000-2002 cholera outbreak in the KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa. Explanation: to data this countries from have an infection water contact network models spatial dynamics population health system outbreaks public risk factors are not results between people contacts more infections time many cases during these studies communities may In has used methods analysis such out individuals susceptible clusters spread effective known populations but also it could same where were reported prevalence rates across settings endemic areas 1 / s et high incidence country specific interventions strategies use case importtravel environmental surveillance systems global scale A new infectious sources distribution through identified community environment associated events other often different their likely
Recent state-of-the-art multiplex imaging techniques have expanded the depth of information that can be captured within a single tissue sample by allowing for panels with dozens of markers. Despite this increase in capacity, space on the panel is still limited due to technical artifacts, tissue loss, and long imaging acquisition time. As such, selecting which markers to include on a panel is important, since removing important markers will result in a loss of biologically relevant information, but identifying redundant markers will provide a room for other markers. To address this, we propose computational approaches to determine the amount of shared information between markers and select an optimally reduced panel that captures maximum amount of information with the fewest markers. Here we examine several panel selection approaches and evaluate them based on their ability to reconstruct the full panel images and information within breast cancer tissue microarray datasets using cyclic immunofluorescence as a proof of concept. We show that all methods perform adequately and can re-capture cell types using only 18 of 25 markers (72% of the original panel size). The correlation-based selection methods achieved the best single-cell marker mean intensity predictions with a Spearman correlation of 0. 90 with the reduced panel. Using the proposed methods shown here, it is possible for researchers to design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained with the limited number of markers with respect to certain evaluation metrics and architecture biases. Explanation: antibody expression data analysis are biomarkers cells array tumor samples high gene set antibodies detection method image molecular diagnostic accuracy these may not results biomarker 1 disease cancers tissues human genes or used clinical studies many new blood DNA microarrays technology development has also tumors whole well model our arrays tools classification models were previously unknown molecules level 2 specific protein antigens profile from one study classifiers approach discovery biological next future technologies large scale complex assays proteins identification novel targeted highly accurate diagnosis some similar patients could use profiling when present clinically significant found known pathology associated diseases related
Leptospirosis has been described as a biphasic disease consisting of hematogenous dissemination to major organs in the acute phase and asymptomatic renal colonization in the chronic phase. Several observational studies have suggested an association between leptospirosis and chronic kidney disease (CKD). We investigated the dynamics of leptospires and histopathological changes in the kidney to understand the relationship between them, and also investigated the extent of renal dysfunction in the acute and chronic phases of leptospirosis using a hamster model. Hamsters (n = 68) were subcutaneously infected with 1 × 104 cells of the Leptospira interrogans serovar Manilae strain UP-MMC-SM. A total of 53 infected hamsters developed fatal acute leptospirosis, and the remaining 15 hamsters recovered from the acute phase, 13 of which showed Leptospira colonization in the kidneys in the chronic phase. Five asymptomatic hamsters also had renal colonization in the chronic phase. Immunofluorescence staining showed that leptospires were locally distributed in the renal interstitium in the early acute phase and then spread continuously into the surrounding interstitium. The kidneys of the surviving hamsters in the chronic phase showed patchy lesions of atrophic tubules, a finding of chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis, which were substantially consistent with the distribution of leptospires in the renal interstitium. The degree of atrophic tubules in kidney sections correlated statistically with the serum creatinine level in the chronic phase (rs = 0. 78, p = 0. 01). Subcutaneous infection with pathogenic leptospires could cause acute death or chronic leptospirosis in hamsters after surviving the acute phase. We suggest that the renal distribution of leptospires during the acute phase probably affected the extent of tubular atrophy, leading to CKD. Explanation: mice host tissue damage is animals are severe fibrosis development interstitial inflammation associated bacteria can we by this for immune cell injury glomerular rats models mouse experimental glomerulonephritis study on animal time course infections lethal more than our findings human clinical important organ sites other not found experimentally progressive diseases may pathogenesis role inflammatory factors developing high risk these at infecting systemic L icit survival organisms when non severity rat urinary tract tissues where bacterial burden within / s well urine system involved progression causes increased mortality was previously Kidney Ipatients develop significant lower levels data present same
Talaromycosis is a serious regional disease endemic in Southeast Asia. In China, Talaromyces marneffei (T. marneffei) infections is mainly concentrated in the southern region, especially in Guangxi, and cause considerable in-hospital mortality in HIV-infected individuals. Currently, the factors that influence in-hospital death of HIV / AIDS patients with T. marneffei infection are not completely clear. Existing machine learning techniques can be used to develop a predictive model to identify relevant prognostic factors to predict death and appears to be essential to reducing in-hospital mortality. We prospectively enrolled HIV / AIDS patients with talaromycosis in the Fourth People s Hospital of Nanning, Guangxi, from January 2012 to June 2019. Clinical features were selected and used to train four different machine learning models (logistic regression, XGBoost, KNN, and SVM) to predict the treatment outcome of hospitalized patients, and 30% internal validation was used to evaluate the performance of models. Machine learning model performance was assessed according to a range of learning metrics, including area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). The SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) tool was used to explain the model. A total of 1927 HIV / AIDS patients with T. marneffei infection were included. The average in-hospital mortality rate was 13. 3% (256 / 1927) from 2012 to 2019. The most common complications / coinfections were pneumonia (68. 9%), followed by oral candida (47. 5%), and tuberculosis (40. 6%). Deceased patients showed higher CD4 / CD8 ratios, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels, creatinine levels, urea levels, uric acid (UA) levels, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels, total bilirubin levels, creatine kinase levels, white blood-cell counts (WBC) counts, neutrophil counts, procaicltonin levels and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels and lower CD3 + T-cell count, CD8 + T-cell count, and lymphocyte counts, platelet (PLT), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), hemoglobin (Hb) levels than those of surviving patients. The predictive XGBoost model exhibited 0. 71 sensitivity, 0. 99 specificity, and 0. 97 AUC in the training dataset, and our outcome prediction model provided robust discrimination in the testing dataset, showing an AUC of 0. 90 with 0. 69 sensitivity and 0. 96 specificity. The other three models were ruled out due to poor performance. Septic shock and respiratory failure were the most important predictive features, followed by uric acid, urea, platelets, and the AST / ALT ratios. The XGBoost machine learning model is a good predictor in the hospitalization outcome of HIV / AIDS patients with T. marneffei infection. The model may have potential application in mortality prediction and high-risk factor identification in the talaromycosis population. Explanation: clinical diagnostic imaging findings non host specific for diagnosis tools 1 study we previously unknown data this could asmore accurate patient survival time analysis results such as studies further development accuracy predicting new research these has classification better understanding on which laboratory test human body immune cells level serum liver iron associated Aspergillus fumigatus complex 2 drug resistance fungal species severe health outcomes http people at itfound diseases aspergillosis lethal it early detection methods similar knowledge discovery novel combination use key infectious pathogen two years case fatality rates all deaths between stage severity predicted future infecting also present
Human toxocariasis has been identified as an under-diagnosed parasitic zoonosis and health disparity of significant public health importance in the United States due to its high seropositivity among socioeconomically disadvantaged groups, and possible links to cognitive and developmental delays. Through microscopy and quantitative PCR, we detected that Toxocara eggs are widespread in New York City public spaces, with evidence of significant levels of contamination in all five boroughs. The Bronx had the highest contamination rate (66. 7%), while Manhattan had the lowest contamination rate (29. 6%). Moreover, infective eggs were only found in the Bronx playgrounds, with over 70% of eggs recovered in embryonic form and the highest egg burden (p = 0. 0365). All other boroughs had eggs in the pre-infectious, unembronyated form. Toxocara cati, the cat roundworm, was the predominant species. These results suggest that feral or untreated cats in New York City represent a significant source of environmental contamination. These findings indicate that human toxocariasis has emerged as an important health disparity in New York City, with ongoing risk of acquiring Toxocara infection in public spaces, especially in poorer neighborhoods. There is a need for reducing environmental Toxocara contamination. Additional rigorous public health interventions should explore further approaches to interrupt transmission to humans. Explanation: ooocysts exposure can control on more studies have infections prevalence data from this children 1 parasite inkfood contamined communities at where A not contaminated kitAs soil In adults disease may be areas by study We community residents infected household pets indoor / Oit environment housing low level water sources associated exposures potential impact domestic dogs owal parasites which homes but pet owners positive animals presence within urban development dog feces samples show these owned animal dingo people living ans their households play out used sanitation intervention methods our knowledge information how
Envenoming by scorpions in genus Tityus is a public health problem in Tropical America. One of the most medically significant species is Tityus trivittatus, which is known to occur from southwest Brazil to central-northern and eastern Argentina. In this work, we studied the lethality, composition, antigenicity, and enzymatic activity of venom from a T. trivittatus population found further north in urban areas of eastern Paraguay, where it has caused serious envenomation of children. Our results indicate that the population is of medical importance as it produces a potently toxic venom with an LD50 around 1. 19 mg / kg. Venom neutralization in preliminary mouse bioassays was complete when using Brazilian anti-T. serrulatus antivenom but only partial when using Argentinean anti-T. trivittatus antivenom. Venom competitive solid-phase enzyme immunoassays and immunoblotting from Argentinean and Paraguayan T. trivittatus populations indicated that antigenic differences exist across the species range. SDS-PAGE showed variations in type and relative amounts of venom proteins between T. trivitattus samples from Argentina and Paraguay. MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry indicated that while some sodium channel toxins are shared, including β-toxin Tt1g, others are population-specific. Proteolytic activity by zymography and peptide identification through nESI-MS / MS also point out that population-specific proteases may exist in T. trivitattus, which are postulated to be involved in the envenoming process. A time-calibrated molecular phylogeny of mitochondrial COI sequences revealed a significant (8. 14%) genetic differentiation between the Argentinean and Paraguayan populations, which appeared to have diverged between the mid Miocene and early Pliocene. Altogether, toxinological and genetic evidence indicate that T. trivitattus populations from Paraguay and Argentina correspond to distinct, unique cryptic species, and suggest that further venom and taxonomic diversity exists in synanthropic southern South American Tityus than previously thought. Explanation: lethal snakes venoms studies human severe sting disease for new antibodies against used clinical treatment patients not present more or antibody development potential therapeutic neutralizing immune sera levels protein our active on study natural protective immunity novel experimental mice major were serum can high post acute fatal humans exposure? animal models laboratory data show similar injury local they into treated well animals mortality effects different these times after use field treatments blood plasma level toxicity associated native enzymes inhibitors their identified two years large dogs bite severity cases poison rats injuries; rabbit's control group New information venom
Bat-pollinated flowers have to attract their pollinators in absence of light and therefore some species developed specialized echoic floral parts. These parts are usually concave shaped and act like acoustic retroreflectors making the flowers acoustically conspicuous to the bats. Acoustic plant specializations only have been described for two bat-pollinated species in the Neotropics and one other bat-dependent plant in South East Asia. However, it remains unclear whether other bat-pollinated plant species also show acoustic adaptations. Moreover, acoustic traits have never been compared between bat-pollinated flowers and flowers belonging to other pollination syndromes. To investigate acoustic traits of bat-pollinated flowers we recorded a dataset of 32320 flower echoes, collected from 168 individual flowers belonging to 12 different species. 6 of these species were pollinated by bats and 6 species were pollinated by insects or hummingbirds. We analyzed the spectral target strength of the flowers and trained a convolutional neural network (CNN) on the spectrograms of the flower echoes. We found that bat-pollinated flowers have a significantly higher echo target strength, independent of their size, and differ in their morphology, specifically in the lower variance of their morphological features. We found that a good classification accuracy by our CNN (up to 84%) can be achieved with only one echo / spectrogram to classify the 12 different plant species, both bat-pollinated and otherwise, with bat-pollinated flowers being easier to classify. The higher classification performance of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphology. Explanation: more nectas important large spectrum is this but? model use frequency range an call types 1 non used information wasn glands number may not similar visual signal signals which has high complex whmoth butterfly many animals butterflies approach plants they specific fruit bees mutuusus models ant detection calls known images contrast structure how such key shape A study where called sound source spectra human ear gland novel vision system ears could benefit petB all data body vocal communication uses animal best humans food bet unique natural there most common same
Elimination of the intermediate snail host of Schistosoma is the most effective way to control schistosomiasis and the most important first step is to accurately identify the snail habitats. Due to the substantial resources required for traditional, manual snail-searching in the field, and potential risk of miss-classification of potential snail habitats by remote sensing, more convenient and precise methods are urgently needed. Snail data (N = 15, 000) from two types of snail habitats (lake / marshland and hilly areas) in Anhui Province, a typical endemic area for schistosomiasis, were collected together with 36 environmental variables covering the whole province. Twelve different models were built and evaluated with indices, such as area under the curve (AUC), Kappa, percent correctly classified (PCC), sensitivity and specificity. We found the presence-absence models performing better than those based on presence-only. However, those derived from machine-learning, especially the random forest (RF) approach were preferable with all indices above 0. 90. Distance to nearest river was found to be the most important variable for the lake / marshlands, while the climatic variables were more important for the hilly endemic areas. The predicted high-risk areas for potential snail habitats of the lake / marshland type exist mainly along the Yangtze River, while those of the hilly type are dispersed in the areas south of the Yangtze River. We provide here the first comprehensive risk profile of potential snail habitats based on precise examinations revealing the true distribution and habitat type, thereby improving efficiency and accuracy of snail control including better allocation of limited health resources. Explanation: water snails that model spatial information can we have this study results mapping where used these ininto which landscape factors out many other not using map our system has method accurate malaria transmission human parasitic disease prevalence at surveillance sites may or maps use survey locations new detection waterbodies an often prediction wetland species occurrence but also network studies highly sensitive parasite infection communities level waters management knowledge ecological regions In drainage yAs well known malpeople lakes public their systems further development wetlands nature specific diseases could spatially there parasites location across countries dry savo
Giardia duodenalis causes giardiasis, a major diarrheal disease in humans worldwide whose treatment relies mainly on metronidazole (MTZ) and albendazole (ABZ). The emergence of ABZ resistance in this parasite has prompted studies to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon. G. duodenalis trophozoites convert ABZ into its sulfoxide (ABZSO) and sulfone (ABZSOO) forms, despite lacking canonical enzymes involved in these processes, such as cytochrome P450s (CYP450s) and flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMOs). This study aims to identify the enzyme responsible for ABZ metabolism and its role in ABZ resistance in G. duodenalis. We first determined that the iron-containing cofactor heme induces higher mRNA expression levels of flavohemoglobin (gFlHb) in Giardia trophozoites. Molecular docking analyses predict favorable interactions of gFlHb with ABZ, ABZSO and ABZSOO. Spectral analyses of recombinant gFlHb in the presence of ABZ, ABZSO and ABZSOO showed high affinities for each of these compounds with Kd values of 22. 7, 19. 1 and 23. 8 nM respectively. ABZ and ABZSO enhanced gFlHb NADH oxidase activity (turnover number 14. 5 min-1), whereas LC-MS / MS analyses of the reaction products showed that gFlHb slowly oxygenates ABZ into ABZSO at a much lower rate (turnover number 0. 01 min-1). Further spectroscopic analyses showed that ABZ is indirectly oxidized to ABZSO by superoxide generated from the NADH oxidase activity of gFlHb. In a similar manner, the superoxide-generating enzyme xanthine oxidase was able to produce ABZSO in the presence of xanthine and ABZ. Interestingly, we find that gFlHb mRNA expression is lower in albendazole-resistant clones compared to those that are sensitive to this drug. Furthermore, all albendazole-resistant clones transfected to overexpress gFlHb displayed higher susceptibility to the drug than the parent clones. Collectively these findings indicate a role for gFlHb in ABZ conversion to its sulfoxide and that gFlHb down-regulation acts as a passive pharmacokinetic mechanism of resistance in this parasite. Explanation: human therapeutic drugs used A new host intestinal parasites may or infection treated bother gene foxasan parasitic cells have also against zebAs metabolic pathways anthelmintic clinical S parasikilling effects F not known results were molecules binding protein can active site Bal genes reduced inside cell model 2 important but more our data now structure analysis function novel proteins complex formation Isingle mutations Gb species found their -studied previously increased oxidative DNA target intracellular [Here it] how key biological effect development time worms susceptible infections therapy use anti
The assimilation, incorporation, and metabolism of sulfur is a fundamental process across all domains of life, yet how cells deal with varying sulfur availability is not well understood. We studied an unresolved conundrum of sulfur fixation in yeast, in which organosulfur auxotrophy caused by deletion of the homocysteine synthase Met17p is overcome when cells are inoculated at high cell density. In combining the use of self-establishing metabolically cooperating (SeMeCo) communities with proteomic, genetic, and biochemical approaches, we discovered an uncharacterized gene product YLL058Wp, herein named Hydrogen Sulfide Utilizing-1 (HSU1). Hsu1p acts as a homocysteine synthase and allows the cells to substitute for Met17p by reassimilating hydrosulfide ions leaked from met17Δ cells into O-acetyl-homoserine and forming homocysteine. Our results show that cells can cooperate to achieve sulfur fixation, indicating that the collective properties of microbial communities facilitate their basic metabolic capacity to overcome sulfur limitation. Explanation: S sulfone H2S production enzymes genes expression proteins methionine synthesis pathways growth conditions bacteria also this two new found have studies on Sulfolde it were cellular systems used different organisms function more protein many other such essential but sulal these enzyme cysteine desulfoxidation reaction key activities required mutants strain previously known be important pathway sulfhydrl addition or ability bacterial sulfate assimilable our mechanisms sulphur species under its As / A form strains genome sulphus system has reduced active specific activity novel Sso control factors now regulatory mutations provide regulation global
Juvenile hormone (JH) acts as a gonadotrophic hormone stimulating insect vitellogenesis and oogenesis. Paracellular transport of yolk proteins through intercellular channels (patency) in the follicular epithelium is a developmentally regulated and evolutionarily conserved process during vitellogenesis. However, the mechanisms underlying patency opening are poorly understood. Using the migratory locust Locusta migratoria as a model system, we report here that JH-regulated remodeling of zonula adherens (ZA), the belt-like adherens junction maintaining physical linking between follicle cells controlled the opening of patency. JH triggered phosphorylation of Partitioning defective protein 3 (Par3) via a signaling cascade including G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), small GTPase Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42) and atypical Protein kinase C (aPKC). Par3 phosphorylation resulted in its disassociation from β-Catenin, the cytoplasmic partner of ZA core component E-Cadherin. Release of Par3 from the β-Catenin / E-Cadherin complex caused ZA disassembly at tricellular contacts, consequently leading to patency enlargement. This study provides new insight into how JH stimulates insect vitellogenesis and egg production via inducing the opening of paracellular route for vitellogenin transport crossing the follicular epithelium barrier. Explanation: cell membrane receptors this by an The with We function may be Drosophila midgut oal expression it or In have these binding ligand secretion coupling trafficking pathway oocyte entry signal molecules can et development eggs oocytes follicles ovary their also other on food feeding flies larval fat body use our studies where they fly's fruit insects ovarian tissue factors release hemolymph flow blood Osuch has not known mechanism control genes different key role but Fus pathways previously found many more Here results were called 1 molecular information across which when required tissues ovaries functions used hormones
Alcoholic-related liver disease (ALD) is the cause of more than half of all liver-related deaths. Sustained excess drinking causes fatty liver and alcohol-related steatohepatitis, which may progress to alcoholic liver fibrosis (ALF) and eventually to alcohol-related liver cirrhosis (ALC). Unfortunately, it is difficult to identify patients with early-stage ALD, as these are largely asymptomatic. Consequently, the majority of ALD patients are only diagnosed by the time ALD has reached decompensated cirrhosis, a symptomatic phase marked by the development of complications as bleeding and ascites. The main goal of this study is to discover relevant upstream diagnoses helping to understand the development of ALD, and to highlight meaningful downstream diagnoses that represent its progression to liver failure. Here, we use data from the Danish health registries covering the entire population of Denmark during nineteen years (1996 2014), to examine if it is possible to identify patients likely to develop ALF or ALC based on their past medical history. To this end, we explore a knowledge discovery approach by using high-dimensional statistical and machine learning techniques to extract and analyze data from the Danish National Patient Registry. Consistent with the late diagnoses of ALD, we find that ALC is the most common form of ALD in the registry data and that ALC patients have a strong over-representation of diagnoses associated with liver dysfunction. By contrast, we identify a small number of patients diagnosed with ALF who appear to be much less sick than those with ALC. We perform a matched case control study using the group of patients with ALC as cases and their matched patients with non-ALD as controls. Machine learning models (SVM, RF, LightGBM and NaiveBayes) trained and tested on the set of ALC patients achieve a high performance for data classification (AUC = 0. 89). When testing the same trained models on the small set of ALF patients, their performance unsurprisingly drops a lot (AUC = 0. 67 for NaiveBayes). The statistical and machine learning results underscore small groups of upstream and downstream comorbidities that accurately detect ALC patients and show promise in prediction of ALF. Some of these groups are conditions either caused by alcohol or caused by malnutrition associated with alcohol-overuse. Others are comorbidities either related to trauma and life-style or to complications to cirrhosis, such as oesophageal varices. Our findings highlight the potential of this approach to uncover knowledge in registry data related to ALD. Explanation: clinical risk factors can model mortality studies 1 severity blood diagnostic accuracy used patient outcomes not yet developed an information system novel diseases diagnosis predict future unknown people at? s well known how often further research questions were important treatment algorithm A severe acute care hospital resource need but also new methods http found out accurate next evidence available better understanding when they ARicalcondition prevalence year injury death estimated livers could earlier identification chronic alcoholism specific fatal organ damage observed many similar current drinkers' In without significant other major leading date advanced cirrhotic had higher
To remodel functional neuronal connectivity, neurons often alter dendrite arbors through elimination and subsequent regeneration of dendritic branches. However, the intrinsic mechanisms underlying this developmentally programmed dendrite regeneration and whether it shares common machinery with injury-induced regeneration remain largely unknown. Drosophila class IV dendrite arborization (C4da) sensory neurons regenerate adult-specific dendrites after eliminating larval dendrites during metamorphosis. Here we show that the microRNA miR-87 is a critical regulator of dendrite regeneration in Drosophila. miR-87 knockout impairs dendrite regeneration after developmentally-programmed pruning, whereas miR-87 overexpression in C4da neurons leads to precocious initiation of dendrite regeneration. Genetic analyses indicate that the transcriptional repressor Tramtrack69 (Ttk69) is a functional target for miR-87-mediated repression as ttk69 expression is increased in miR-87 knockout neurons and reducing ttk69 expression restores dendrite regeneration to mutants lacking miR-87 function. We further show that miR-87 is required for dendrite regeneration after acute injury in the larval stage, providing a mechanistic link between developmentally programmed and injury-induced dendrite regeneration. These findings thus indicate that miR-87 promotes dendrite regrowth during regeneration at least in part through suppressing Ttk69 in Drosophila sensory neurons and suggest that developmental and injury-induced dendrite regeneration share a common intrinsic mechanism to reactivate dendrite growth. Explanation: axon cell are gene cells neuron 1 axons new development loss by genes can et their these an axonal repair process known on have previously results dends our nerve damage or brain tissue normal ability one more injured nervous system The be die wal survival time from found In response when may activity regenerative signaling pathways important number neural stem / not which damaged mature removed information how many other similar data identified role also develop into glia factors regenerating related but they different molecular such studies has shown novel use find same processes changes genetic pathway injuries
Vγ9Vδ2 T cells rapidly respond to phosphoantigens produced by Plasmodium falciparum in an innate-like manner, without prior antigen exposure or processing. Vδ2 T cells have been shown to inhibit parasite replication in vitro and are associated with protection from P. falciparum parasitemia in vivo. Although a marked expansion of Vδ2 T cells is seen after acute malaria infection in naïve individuals, repeated malaria causes Vδ2 T cells to decline both in frequency and in malaria-responsiveness, and to exhibit numerous transcriptional and phenotypic changes, including upregulation of the Fc receptor CD16. Here we investigate the functional role of CD16 on Vδ2 T cells in the immune response to malaria. We show that CD16 + Vδ2 T cells possess more cytolytic potential than their CD16- counterparts, and bear many of the hallmarks of mature NK cells, including KIR expression. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Vδ2 T cells from heavily malaria-exposed individuals are able to respond to opsonized P. falciparum-infected red blood cells through CD16, representing a second, distinct pathway by which Vδ2 T cells may contribute to anti-parasite effector functions. This response was independent of TCR engagement, as demonstrated by blockade of the phosphoantigen presenting molecule Butyrophilin 3A1. Together these results indicate that Vδ2 T cells in heavily malaria-exposed individuals retain the capacity for antimalarial effector function, and demonstrate their activation by opsonized parasite antigen. This represents a new role both for Vδ2 T cells and for opsonizing antibodies in parasite clearance, emphasizing cooperation between the cellular and humoral arms of the immune system. Explanation: killing responses human host cell receptors control) -disease mechanisms against infections immunity IL memory CD4 (1 killer natural protective antibody binding interactions specific recognition non opγ interferon regulatory factors signaling pathways can used this studies our mice data also vaccine development vThe vaccination strategies use during treatment patients study parasites ability they therapeutic DAs molecules vaccines targeting such Qactivating effects previously known how has / s protein A not mechanism it treated people could be similar but found tat where viral DNA levels surface proteins interaction bacteria activity important pathogen related health
Owing to their plasticity, intrinsically disordered and multidomain proteins require descriptions based on multiple conformations, thus calling for techniques and analysis tools that are capable of dealing with conformational ensembles rather than a single protein structure. Here, we introduce DEER-PREdict, a software program to predict Double Electron-Electron Resonance distance distributions as well as Paramagnetic Relaxation Enhancement rates from ensembles of protein conformations. DEER-PREdict uses an established rotamer library approach to describe the paramagnetic probes which are bound covalently to the protein. DEER-PREdict has been designed to operate efficiently on large conformational ensembles, such as those generated by molecular dynamics simulation, to facilitate the validation or refinement of molecular models as well as the interpretation of experimental data. The performance and accuracy of the software is demonstrated with experimentally characterized protein systems: HIV-1 protease, T4 Lysozyme and Acyl-CoA-binding protein. DEER-PREdict is open source (GPLv3) and available at github. com / KULL-Centre / DEERpredict and as a Python PyPI package pypi. org / project / DEERPREdict. Explanation: in NMR structures model residue backbone flexibility studies methods can be used structural ensemble our results We not predicted residues using this et also experiments X free information more important known study have A new method use In complex nuclear spin relaxation water chemical exchange accessible solvent state many other often provide how these enzyme active site ligand interactions MD reDid it out all knowledge flexible motions dynamic networks different time sampling simulations work predictions could found This enzymes mechanism complexes studied transition states energy function ability were process molecules system one key regions where essential waters proton
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is one of the top aetiologic agents of diarrhea in children under the age of 5 in low-middle income countries (LMICs). The lack of point of care diagnostic tools for routine ETEC diagnosis results in limited data regarding the actual burden and epidemiology in the endemic areas. We evaluated performance of the novel Rapid LAMP based Diagnostic Test (RLDT) for detection of ETEC in stool as a point of care diagnostic assay in a resource-limited setting. We conducted a cross-sectional study of 324 randomly selected stool samples from children under 5 presenting with moderate to severe diarrhea (MSD). The samples were collected between November 2012 to September 2013 at selected health facilities in Zambia. The RLDT was evaluated by targeting three ETEC toxin genes [heat labile toxin (LT) and heat stable toxins (STh and STp)]. Quantitative PCR was used as the gold standard to evaluate the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of RLDT for detection of ETEC. We additionally described the prevalence and seasonality of ETEC. The study included 324 participants, 50. 6% of which were female. The overall prevalence of ETEC was 19. 8% by qPCR and 19. 4% by RLDT. The children between 12 to 59 months had the highest prevalence of 22%. The study determined ETEC toxin distribution was LT 28 / 321 (9%), ST 18 / 321 (6%) and LT / ST 16 / 321 (5%). The sensitivity and specificity of the RLDT compared to qPCR using a Ct 35 as the cut-off, were 90. 7% and 97. 5% for LT, 85. 2% and 99. 3% for STh and 100% and 99. 7% for STp, respectively. The results of this study suggest that RLDT is sufficiently sensitive and specific and easy to implement in the endemic countries. Being rapid and simple, the RLDT also presents as an attractive tool for point-of-care testing at the health facilities and laboratories in the resource-limited settings. Explanation: test methods are tests laboratory capacity level accuracy studies on DT antigen use molecular assays limit DNA or enzyme LusE gene can be screening high disease severity acute diarrhoea Bangladesh clinical case infection levels community outbreak associated DIn need more than we have diagnostics accurate RDwhen tested stools enterbacterial pathogen identification method it will not? -time these cases lower global surveillance system help country's ability sample collection field research development A new technology available real life infections could result diarrheal morbidity risk water quality food environmental factors such important bacteria pathogens cause
Longitudinal intervention studies with repeated measurements over time are an important type of experimental design in biomedical research. Due to the advent of omics -sciences (genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics), longitudinal studies generate increasingly multivariate outcome data. Analysis of such data must take both the longitudinal intervention structure and multivariate nature of the data into account. The ASCA + -framework combines general linear models with principal component analysis and can be used to separate and visualize the multivariate effect of different experimental factors. However, this methodology has not yet been developed for the more complex designs often found in longitudinal intervention studies, which may be unbalanced, involve randomized interventions, and have substantial missing data. Here we describe a new methodology, repeated measures ASCA + (RM-ASCA +), and show how it can be used to model metabolic changes over time, and compare metabolic changes between groups, in both randomized and non-randomized intervention studies. Tools for both visualization and model validation are discussed. This approach can facilitate easier interpretation of data from longitudinal clinical trials with multivariate outcomes. Explanation: study is that disease response methods development novel information when results analyses by using these change treatment effects subjects health related blood biomarkers discovery genetic association gene expression or as well known causal mechanisms biological knowledge A follow on were genes associated diseases relationship many genome large one could understanding findings In our mechanistic pathways human phenotype their biomarker responses also plasma drug target levels serum protein therapeutic drugs use markers potential mechanism observed patients at molecular biology experiments high s hypothesis future treatments early prediction cancer risk specific targeted therapy was pathway level 1 trial predictive ability predict cancers
We study the time evolution of symptoms (signs) with some defects in the dynamics of a reaction network as a (microscopic) model for the progress of disease phenotypes. To this end, we take a large population of reaction networks and follow the stochastic dynamics of the system to see how the development of defects affects the macroscopic states of the signs probability distribution. We start from some plausible definitions for the healthy and disease states along with a dynamical model for the emergence of diseases by a reverse simulated annealing algorithm. The healthy state is defined as a state of maximum objective function, which here is the sum of mutual information between a subset of signal variables and the subset of assigned response variables. A disease phenotype is defined with two parameters controlling the rate of mutations in reactions and the rate of accepting mutations that reduce the objective function. The model can provide the time dependence of the sign probabilities given a disease phenotype. This allows us to obtain the accuracy of diagnosis as a function of time by using a probabilistic model of signs and diseases. The trade-off between the diagnosis accuracy (increasing in time) and the objective function (decreasing in time) can be used to suggest an optimal time for medical intervention. Our model would be useful in particular for a dynamical (history-based) diagnostic problem, to estimate the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. Explanation: data are patients have unknown genes expression systems our models genetic disorder or on these may not known proteins complex many more results gene mutation rates process their such In different people one has evolutionary mechanisms human cancer cells pathways also found similar biological processes normal individuals 1 molecular level protein evolve times important properties changes at it were previously health disorders related molecules et humans cancers new DNA cell signaling mechanism cause effects other all but same present knowledge about when they clinical patient survival ability treatment strategies could well analysis result studies develop methods These out use even
The relationship between transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and the amount of virus present in the proximity of a susceptible host is not understood. Here, we developed a within-host and aerosol mathematical model and used it to determine the relationship between viral kinetics in the upper respiratory track, viral kinetics in the aerosols, and new transmissions in golden hamsters challenged with SARS-CoV-2. We determined that infectious virus shedding early in infection correlates with transmission events, shedding of infectious virus diminishes late in the infection, and high viral RNA levels late in the infection are a poor indicator of transmission. We further showed that viral infectiousness increases in a density dependent manner with viral RNA and that their relative ratio is time-dependent. Such information is useful for designing interventions. Explanation: infected animal models human exposure droplets droplet disease more viruses data from animals contact infections by this an studies on humans exposures risk factors have our experimental mice lung can be as low rate into lower number 1 or higher these experiments infect experimentally were during laboratory mouse infectivity results A / s replication level but also other less likely similar study entry through which In exposed pathogen's well predicted modeling system one large scale found potential mechanisms understanding many hypothesis work has been key role different important at how small size lungs cells may previously air health people
Counting the number of species, items, or genes that are shared between two groups, sets, or communities is a simple calculation when sampling is complete. However, when only partial samples are available, quantifying the overlap between two communities becomes an estimation problem. Furthermore, to calculate normalized measures of β-diversity, such as the Jaccard and Sorenson-Dice indices, one must also estimate the total sizes of the communities being compared. Previous efforts to address these problems have assumed knowledge of total community sizes and then used Bayesian methods to produce unbiased estimates with quantified uncertainty. Here, we address communities of unknown size and show that this produces systematically better estimates both in terms of central estimates and quantification of uncertainty in those estimates. We further show how to use species, item, or gene count data to refine estimates of community size in a Bayesian joint model of community size and overlap. Explanation: for can be more than not known abundance many studies by which our results analysis method () The often inference from but it may population numbers 1 large sample information networks models using estimated populations study on patterns across organisms important yet their network so well understanding has all other ingroup taxa within same individuals found out analyses tools approach new questions ability some ecological niche distribution scale present even different spatial environmental factors at global they environment systems ecosystem nature ecosystems potential thus there water resources management strategies provide system level natural food fish trophic structure were
To determine the diagnostic validity of the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDT) among individuals with suspected chronic Chagas Disease (CD). A search was made for studies with ELISA and RDT assays validity estimates as eligibility criteria, published between 2010 and 2020 on PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, and LILACS. This way, we extracted the data and assessed the risk of bias and applicability of the studies using the QUADAS-2 tool. The bivariate random effects model was also used to estimate the overall sensitivity and specificity through forest-plots, ROC space, and we visually assessed the heterogeneity between studies. Meta-regressions were made using subgroup analysis. We used Deeks test to assess the risk of publication bias. 43 studies were included; 27 assessed ELISA tests; 14 assessed RDTs; and 2 assessed ELISA and RDTs, against different reference standards. 51. 2% of them used a non-comparative observational design, and 46. 5% a comparative clinical design (case-control type). High risk of bias was detected for patient screening and reference standard. The ELISA tests had a sensitivity of 99% (95% CI: 98 99) and a specificity of 98% (95% CI: 97 99); whereas the Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDT) had values of 95% (95% CI: 94 97) and 97% (95% CI: 96 98), respectively. Deeks test showed asymmetry on the ELISA assays. ELISA and RDT tests have high validity for diagnosing chronic Chagas disease. The analysis of these two types of evidence in this systematic review and meta-analysis constitutes an input for their use. The limitations included the difficulty in extracting data due to the lack of information in the articles, and the comparative clinical-type design of some studies. Explanation: that results is accuracy study quality assessment tools are testing methods can be more accurate laboratory performance evaluation by when compared diagnosis result serological T cruzi IgG antibody detection Trypanosoma infection prevalence from population health countries 1 or not available at which found many endemic Latin America country has serology indeterminate trypanparasite blood samples confirmed people infected human cases may one specific antigen rapid antibodies limit development method new molecular diagnostics such sensitive PCR positive serum level In patients init serologic confirmation species infections previously tested well known low parasita4 field negative sera findings other useful
Computational modeling of dopamine transmission is challenged by complex underlying mechanisms. Here we present a new computational model that (I) simultaneously regards release, diffusion and uptake of dopamine, (II) considers multiple terminal release events and (III) comprises both synaptic and volume transmission by incorporating the geometry of the synaptic cleft. We were able to validate our model in that it simulates concentration values comparable to physiological values observed in empirical studies. Further, although synaptic dopamine diffuses into extra-synaptic space, our model reflects a very localized signal occurring on the synaptic level, i. e. synaptic dopamine release is negligibly recognized by neighboring synapses. Moreover, increasing evidence suggests that cognitive performance can be predicted by signal variability of neuroimaging data (e. g. BOLD). Signal variability in target areas of dopaminergic neurons (striatum, cortex) may arise from dopamine concentration variability. On that account we compared spatio-temporal variability in a simulation mimicking normal dopamine transmission in striatum to scenarios of enhanced dopamine release and dopamine uptake inhibition. We found different variability characteristics between the three settings, which may in part account for differences in empirical observations. From a clinical perspective, differences in striatal dopaminergic signaling contribute to differential learning and reward processing, with relevant implications for addictive- and compulsive-like behavior. Specifically, dopaminergic tone is assumed to impact on phasic dopamine and hence on the integration of reward-related signals. However, in humans DA tone is classically assessed using PET, which is an indirect measure of endogenous DA availability and suffers from temporal and spatial resolution issues. We discuss how this can lead to discrepancies with observations from other methods such as microdialysis and show how computational modeling can help to refine our understanding of DA transmission. Explanation: brain levels extracellular time information system D1 receptor binding potential are models dynamics process more drug effects D2 Dopamine transporter DAT 1 not function mechanism activity neurotransmitter concentrations predict changes prediction future predictions results have high rate these also experimental well known systems when et mesdopD human use The study d their receptors local compartment 2 molecules transport membrane transporters at network structure dynamic properties but cells ability molecular important functional role they out presynaptic active one specific drugs effect across neurophysiology large intracellular pathway neurotransmitters' s experiments used simulations previously knowledge A neural current flow
Female tick salivary glands undergo rapid degeneration several days post engorgement. This degeneration may be caused by the increased concentration of ecdysone in the hemolymph during the fast feeding period and both autophagy and apoptosis occur. In this work, we first proved autophagy-related gene (ATG) and caspase gene expression peaks during degeneration of the tick salivary glands. We explored the regulatory role of Rhipicephalus haemaphysaloides autophagy-related 5 (RhATG5) in the degeneration of tick salivary glands. During the fast feeding phase, RhATG5 was cleaved and both calcium concentration and the transcription of Rhcalpains increased in the salivary glands. Recombinant RhATG5 was cleaved by μ-calpain only in the presence of calcium; the mutant RhATG5191-199Δ was not cleaved. Treatment with 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) led to programmed cell death in the salivary glands of unfed ticks in vitro, RhATG8-phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) was upregulated in ticks treated with low concentration of 20E. Conversely, RhATG8-PE decreased and Rhcaspase-7 increased in ticks treated with a high concentration of 20E and transformed autophagy to apoptosis. High concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5. Calcium concentration and expression of Rhcalpains were also upregulated in the tick salivary glands. RNA interference (RNAi) of RhATG5 in vitro inhibited both autophagy and apoptosis of the tick salivary glands. RNAi of RhATG5 in vivo significantly inhibited the normal feeding process. These results demonstrated that high concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulated the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. Explanation: is fly midgut cells are genes for an autophagic degradation rAtgprotein 1 The insect host immune against flies A proteins as these control rhapactive proteases inhibitors on function their or can used previously known Ral processing enzymes activation killing insects apoptotic pathways have important Rab3 / it factors other such our studies Bsaliva gland specific Ioat blood digestion lethal Drosophila fat body into when infected nymphIxodes scapularis adult development I parasit digestive system larvae gut ingestion immunity anti mechanisms they injected aegypti nymphs survival human induced disease resistance larval
In the last 20 years yellow fever (YF) has seen dramatic changes to its incidence and geographic extent, with the largest outbreaks in South America since 1940 occurring in the previously unaffected South-East Atlantic coast of Brazil in 2016 2019. While habitat fragmentation and land-cover have previously been implicated in zoonotic disease, their role in YF has not yet been examined. We examined the extent to which vegetation, land-cover, climate and host population predicted the numbers of months a location reported YF per year and by each month over the time-period. Two sets of models were assessed, one looking at interannual differences over the study period (2003 2016), and a seasonal model looking at intra-annual differences by month, averaging over the years of the study period. Each was fit using hierarchical negative-binomial regression in an exhaustive model fitting process. Within each set, the best performing models, as measured by the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), were combined to create ensemble models to describe interannual and seasonal variation in YF. The models reproduced the spatiotemporal heterogeneities in YF transmission with coefficient of determination (R2) values of 0. 43 (95% CI 0. 41 0. 45) for the interannual model and 0. 66 (95% CI 0. 64 0. 67) for the seasonal model. For the interannual model, EVI, land-cover and vegetation heterogeneity were the primary contributors to the variance explained by the model, and for the seasonal model, EVI, day temperature and rainfall amplitude. Our models explain much of the spatiotemporal variation in YF in South America, both seasonally and across the period 2003 2016. Vegetation type (EVI), heterogeneity in vegetation (perhaps a proxy for habitat fragmentation) and land cover explain much of the trends in YF transmission seen. These findings may help understand the recent expansions of the YF endemic zone, as well as to the highly seasonal nature of YF. Explanation: landscape areas that human health spatial distribution patterns are we ecological data can be more than landscapes tropical forest area is this regions dynamics on where humans risk from foreyour urban vector control interventions scale studies natural occurrence large epidemics potential use surveillance system temporal such A countries level during outbreak virus ecology results spatially important but also these epidemic diseases impact could similar or high malaria mortality cases infection public severe dengue 1 epidemiological season local people associated between man's major Africa region it known when present information? New environmental factors into observed communities sites
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is characterized by uncontrollable repetitive actions thought to rely on abnormalities within fundamental instrumental learning systems. We investigated cognitive and computational mechanisms underlying Pavlovian biases on instrumental behavior in both clinical OCD patients and healthy controls using a Pavlovian-Instrumental Transfer (PIT) task. PIT is typically evidenced by increased responding in the presence of a positive (previously rewarded) Pavlovian cue, and reduced responding in the presence of a negative cue. Thirty OCD patients and thirty-one healthy controls completed the Pavlovian Instrumental Transfer test, which included instrumental training, Pavlovian training for positive, negative and neutral cues, and a PIT phase in which participants performed the instrumental task in the presence of the Pavlovian cues. Modified Rescorla-Wagner models were fitted to trial-by-trial data of participants to estimate underlying computational mechanism and quantify individual differences during training and transfer stages. Bayesian hierarchical methods were used to estimate free parameters and compare the models. Behavioral and computational results indicated a weaker Pavlovian influence on instrumental behavior in OCD patients than in HC, especially for negative Pavlovian cues. Our results contrast with the increased PIT effects reported for another set of disorders characterized by compulsivity, substance use disorders, in which PIT is enhanced. A possible reason for the reduced PIT in OCD may be impairment in using the contextual information provided by the cues to appropriately adjust behavior, especially when inhibiting responding when a negative cue is present. This study provides deeper insight into our understanding of deficits in OCD from the perspective of Pavlovian influences on instrumental behavior and may have implications for OCD treatment modalities focused on reducing compulsive behaviors. Explanation: that we model human brain reward this are symptoms related abnormal rats food addiction like more animals can approach response an as behavioral control people's these same but also function their humans pathological anxiety level specific role play different between animal PD symptom they similar process normal ability neural circuits activity has such disease state impaired decision making action inhibitory system The functional dopamine striatal neurons "how drug addictive drugs self motivated experimental studies associated dopaminergic signaling it dependent DA levels found out development potential effect not predicted addict subjects will or other well time processes inhibition
The Apicomplexa phylum comprises thousands of distinct intracellular parasite species, including coccidians, haemosporidians, piroplasms, and cryptosporidia. These parasites are characterized by complex and divergent life cycles occupying a variety of host niches. Consequently, they exhibit distinct adaptations to the differences in nutritional availabilities, either relying on biosynthetic pathways or by salvaging metabolites from their host. Pantothenate (Pan, vitamin B5) is the precursor for the synthesis of an essential cofactor, coenzyme A (CoA), but among the apicomplexans, only the coccidian subgroup has the ability to synthesize Pan. While the pathway to synthesize CoA from Pan is largely conserved across all branches of life, there are differences in the redundancy of enzymes and possible alternative pathways to generate CoA from Pan. Impeding the scavenge of Pan and synthesis of Pan and CoA have been long recognized as potential targets for antimicrobial drug development, but in order to fully exploit these critical pathways, it is important to understand such differences. Recently, a potent class of pantothenamides (PanAms), Pan analogs, which target CoA-utilizing enzymes, has entered antimalarial preclinical development. The potential of PanAms to target multiple downstream pathways make them a promising compound class as broad antiparasitic drugs against other apicomplexans. In this review, we summarize the recent advances in understanding the Pan and CoA biosynthesis pathways, and the suitability of these pathways as drug targets in Apicomplexa, with a particular focus on the cyst-forming coccidian, Toxoplasma gondii, and the haemosporidian, Plasmodium falciparum. Explanation: that metabolic anaoamcell cycle malaria parasifolate metabolism required new compounds use pandisease blood stage treatment pan inhibitors can be used anti human infection B resistance studies now more our previously known lead antimalas1 small molecules novel mechanism cells activity not yet discovered / As well one may also provide unique cellular growth inhibition function found genes enzyme active specific protein kinase B1 ATP binding proteins Basexual Cryptosporidium Iplasma during infected red kDNA replication kinases phosphorylation key infections We study food production many amechanisms were gene expression when treated oocysts
One of the unique traits of membrane proteins is that a significant fraction of their hydrophobic amino acids is exposed to the hydrophobic core of lipid bilayers rather than being embedded in the protein interior, which is often not explicitly considered in the protein structure and function predictions. Here, we propose a characteristic and predictive quantity, the membrane contact probability (MCP), to describe the likelihood of the amino acids of a given sequence being in direct contact with the acyl chains of lipid molecules. We show that MCP is complementary to solvent accessibility in characterizing the outer surface of membrane proteins, and it can be predicted for any given sequence with a machine learning-based method by utilizing a training dataset extracted from MemProtMD, a database generated from molecular dynamics simulations for the membrane proteins with a known structure. As the first of many potential applications, we demonstrate that MCP can be used to systematically improve the prediction precision of the protein contact maps and structures. Explanation: lipids binding residues are model our predict residue contacts between this important water models have also on data these results The as out studies methods more peptides interactions information found experimentally or ability how well experimental work all such C α transmembrane helix A / an essential cell membranes properties at complex 1 peptide complexes study has been high energy but experiments knowledge new questions using regions other key positions interface side chain specific sites interaction polar mutations non conserved hydrophobicity analysis may different parts they help local structural waters main role In most observed interfaces region compared were identified
Pandemic management requires reliable and efficient dynamical simulation to predict and control disease spreading. The COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic is mitigated by several non-pharmaceutical interventions, but it is hard to predict which of these are the most effective for a given population. We developed the computationally effective and scalable, agent-based microsimulation framework PanSim, allowing us to test control measures in multiple infection waves caused by the spread of a new virus variant in a city-sized societal environment using a unified framework fitted to realistic data. We show that vaccination strategies prioritising occupational risk groups minimise the number of infections but allow higher mortality while prioritising vulnerable groups minimises mortality but implies an increased infection rate. We also found that intensive vaccination along with non-pharmaceutical interventions can substantially suppress the spread of the virus, while low levels of vaccination, premature reopening may easily revert the epidemic to an uncontrolled state. Our analysis highlights that while vaccination protects the elderly from COVID-19, a large percentage of children will contract the virus, and we also show the benefits and limitations of various quarantine and testing scenarios. The uniquely detailed spatio-temporal resolution of PanSim allows the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents under dynamically changing conditions. Explanation: public health contact people more vaccines human contacts transmission model our could be on social scale this vaccine use / time viral susceptible individuals infected outbreak response viruses have not or as countries strategy against one during epidemics novel coronavirus patients age humans populations containment efforts 1 virtual world outbreaks such A different models results In times et high effectiveness then required global critical many years future paninfluenza prevention potential impact severe cases between modelling studies highly predicted has used information system dynamics epidemiological infectious diseases simulations through when less likely key governments intervention settings their work effectively known
A major limitation to understanding the etiopathogenesis of environmental enteric dysfunction (EED) is the lack of a comprehensive, reproducible histologic framework for characterizing the small bowel lesions. We hypothesized that the development of such a system will identify unique histology features for EED, and that some features might correlate with clinical severity. Duodenal endoscopic biopsies from two cohorts where EED is prevalent (Pakistan, Zambia) and North American children with and without gluten sensitive enteropathy (GSE) were processed for routine hematoxylin & eosin (H & E) staining, and scanned to produce whole slide images (WSIs) which we shared among study pathologists via a secure web browser-based platform. A semi-quantitative scoring index composed of 11 parameters encompassing tissue injury and response patterns commonly observed in routine clinical practice was constructed by three gastrointestinal pathologists, with input from EED experts. The pathologists then read the WSIs using the EED histology index, and inter-observer reliability was assessed. The histology index was further used to identify within- and between-child variations as well as features common across and unique to each cohort, and those that correlated with host phenotype. Eight of the 11 histologic scoring parameters showed useful degrees of variation. The overall concordance across all parameters was 96% weighted agreement, kappa 0. 70, and Gwet s AC 0. 93. Zambian and Pakistani tissues shared some histologic features with GSE, but most features were distinct, particularly abundance of intraepithelial lymphocytes in the Pakistani cohort, and marked villous destruction and loss of secretory cell lineages in the Zambian cohort. We propose the first EED histology index for interpreting duodenal biopsies. This index should be useful in future clinical and translational studies of this widespread, poorly understood, and highly consequential disorder, which might be caused by multiple contributing processes, in different regions of the world. Explanation: inflammatory intestinal inflammation disease pathology human data severe GI mucosal immune complex gut associated gene expression are mucosa damage can diagnostic endoscopy findings have high level cells our novel biomarkers EUS imaging analysis tools endoscopes biopsy samples similar patients may on these methods stool IBD diagnosis accuracy microscopy has more than histological IGIrelated diseases large scale molecular epithelial barrier function blood specific proteins involved model yet pathogenesis their -not previously known or results enterdiarrhea ehealth assessment important genes intestine pathological changes In experimental ulcerative colitis animal models cause found new potential Dit et
Real-world agents, humans as well as animals, observe each other during interactions and choose their own actions taking the partners ongoing behaviour into account. Yet, classical game theory assumes that players act either strictly sequentially or strictly simultaneously without knowing each other s current choices. To account for action visibility and provide a more realistic model of interactions under time constraints, we introduce a new game-theoretic setting called transparent games, where each player has a certain probability of observing the partner s choice before deciding on its own action. By means of evolutionary simulations, we demonstrate that even a small probability of seeing the partner s choice before one s own decision substantially changes the evolutionary successful strategies. Action visibility enhances cooperation in an iterated coordination game, but reduces cooperation in a more competitive iterated Prisoner s Dilemma. In both games, Win stay, lose shift and Tit-for-tat strategies are predominant for moderate transparency, while a Leader-Follower strategy emerges for high transparency. Our results have implications for studies of human and animal social behaviour, especially for the analysis of dyadic and group interactions. Explanation: to when can (people with play is which this same decisions by) observed use known information about how they not yet ability 1 such We may be our two different from played data show behavior also important individuals role dynamics models ants et many species ant's self system used these ingroups agent directed network interaction patterns complex systems approach unknown number playing key evolved novel behaviours non all mechanisms between study then similar networks process control some found out The A /? experiments evolution problem solving using could previously knowledge 2 plays us performance based
Telomerase activity is the principal telomere maintenance mechanism in human cancers, however 15% of cancers utilise a recombination-based mechanism referred to as alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) that leads to long and heterogenous telomere length distributions. Loss-of-function mutations in the Alpha Thalassemia / Mental Retardation Syndrome X-Linked (ATRX) gene are frequently found in ALT cancers. Here, we demonstrate that the loss of ATRX, coupled with telomere dysfunction during crisis, is sufficient to initiate activation of the ALT pathway and that it confers replicative immortality in human fibroblasts. Additionally, loss of ATRX combined with a telomere-driven crisis in HCT116 epithelial cancer cells led to the initiation of an ALT-like pathway. In these cells, a rapid and precise telomeric elongation and the induction of C-circles was observed; however, this process was transient and the telomeres ultimately continued to erode such that the cells either died or the escape from crisis was associated with telomerase activation. In both of these instances, telomere sequencing revealed that all alleles, irrespective of whether they were elongated, were enriched in variant repeat types, that appeared to be cell-line specific. Thus, our data show that the loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis induces the ALT pathway in fibroblasts and enables a transient activation of ALT in epithelial cells. Explanation: replication DNA damage repair by for chromosome ends mechanisms can TERT normal 1 not factors have which may also how at genome shelend A critical ATR Tre TERTIS genes tThe tel3 model chromosomes high expression on ATM checkpoint protein damaged non essential but results ATL patients more than other similar studies et their shorter time many key genetic pathways could We has important TRY ARhTERT proteins complex 2 survival ability cellular aging induced short life growth conditions when required longer one active TL shortening models leading age t somatic mutation rate increase
Toxoplasma gondii possesses an armada of secreted virulent factors that enable parasite invasion and survival into host cells. These factors are contained in specific secretory organelles, the rhoptries, micronemes and dense granules that release their content upon host cell recognition. Dense granules are secreted in a constitutive manner during parasite replication and play a crucial role in modulating host metabolic and immune responses. While the molecular mechanisms triggering rhoptry and microneme release upon host cell adhesion have been well studied, constitutive secretion remains a poorly explored aspect of T. gondii vesicular trafficking. Here, we investigated the role of the small GTPase Rab11A, a known regulator of exocytosis in eukaryotic cells. Our data revealed an essential role of Rab11A in promoting the cytoskeleton driven transport of dense granules and the release of their content into the vacuolar space. Rab11A also regulates transmembrane protein trafficking and localization during parasite replication, indicating a broader role of Rab11A in cargo exocytosis at the plasma membrane. Moreover, we found that Rab11A also regulates extracellular parasite motility and adhesion to host cells. In line with these findings, MIC2 secretion was altered in Rab11A-defective parasites, which also exhibited severe morphological defects. Strikingly, by live imaging we observed a polarized accumulation of Rab11A-positive vesicles and dense granules at the apical pole of extracellular motile and invading parasites suggesting that apically polarized Rab11A-dependent delivery of cargo regulates early secretory events during parasite entry into host cells. Explanation: infection is for intracellular proteins Rit as parasitt infected vacuole this function) new important molecules (be type effector amont traffic traffic1 vacuoles complex targeting or not required GTPases from other critical cellular process inside signaling pathways effectors target such studies previously our results on how many key parasitic actin binding interactions G8 The regulated active / infections disease virulence human pathogenic bacteria killing mechanism use receptors associated genes products may pathogen novel conserved non functional involved targeted different functions they within control but infecting system components interaction two pathogens related work where
The stimulation of a single neuron in the rat somatosensory cortex can elicit a behavioral response. The probability of a behavioral response does not depend appreciably on the duration or intensity of a constant stimulation, whereas the response probability increases significantly upon injection of an irregular current. Biological mechanisms that can potentially suppress a constant input signal are present in the dynamics of both neurons and synapses and seem ideal candidates to explain these experimental findings. Here, we study a large network of integrate-and-fire neurons with several salient features of neuronal populations in the rat barrel cortex. The model includes cellular spike-frequency adaptation, experimentally constrained numbers and types of chemical synapses endowed with short-term plasticity, and gap junctions. Numerical simulations of this model indicate that cellular and synaptic adaptation mechanisms alone may not suffice to account for the experimental results if the local network activity is read out by an integrator. However, a circuit that approximates a differentiator can detect the single-cell stimulation with a reliability that barely depends on the length or intensity of the stimulus, but that increases when an irregular signal is used. This finding is in accordance with the experimental results obtained for the stimulation of a regularly-spiking excitatory cell. Explanation: cells information system responses time firing rate our data neural networks models) sensory brain circuits from as process inhibition et (1 s cortical inhibitory interneurons number stimuli properties have be function their known mechanism use different between how temporal patterns activation A / it ability one more experiments show which also same behavior previously found many learning rules inputs systems We could In at such processes observed rats whisrelated dynamic changes signaling pathways were well spikes long recurrent connectivity interactions within functional electrical conductance membrane potential level two important role they processing complex other unknown nervous tissue
Human skin is continuously exposed to environmental DNA damage leading to the accumulation of somatic mutations over the lifetime of an individual. Mutagenesis in human skin cells can be also caused by endogenous DNA damage and by DNA replication errors. The contributions of these processes to the somatic mutation load in the skin of healthy humans has so far not been accurately assessed because the low numbers of mutations from current sequencing methodologies preclude the distinction between sequencing errors and true somatic genome changes. In this work, we sequenced genomes of single cell-derived clonal lineages obtained from primary skin cells of a large cohort of healthy individuals across a wide range of ages. We report here the range of mutation load and a comprehensive view of the various somatic genome changes that accumulate in skin cells. We demonstrate that UV-induced base substitutions, insertions and deletions are prominent even in sun-shielded skin. In addition, we detect accumulation of mutations due to spontaneous deamination of methylated cytosines as well as insertions and deletions characteristic of DNA replication errors in these cells. The endogenously induced somatic mutations and indels also demonstrate a linear increase with age, while UV-induced mutation load is age-independent. Finally, we show that DNA replication stalling at common fragile sites are potent sources of gross chromosomal rearrangements in human cells. Thus, somatic mutations in skin of healthy individuals reflect the interplay of environmental and endogenous factors in facilitating genome instability and carcinogenesis. Explanation: cancer ultraviolet radiation mutagenesis repair lesions on) more sunlight exposure genetic for may non A (1 genomic infound cancers high rate our results have such et al other types mutational events which solar UVR associated germline mutagenic process their similar but many known data analysis evidence suggest it could potentially new mutated site specific gene or same mechanisms model how damaged genes mutable one were likely normal tissue response those they all development UVB light effects through complex formation frequency higher risk exposures melanoma BRAF driver Mutations unique disease some patients Ultraviolet tlevel people w
Clonorchiasis, caused by the fish-borne trematode Clonorchis sinensis, is a neglected tropical disease and a public health issue in endemic countries. In Vietnam, an in-depth analysis of risk factors for the condition is missing up to now. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of C. sinensis infection and associated risk factors in rural communities in northern Vietnam. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in 4 communes in Yen Bai and Thanh Hoa provinces where clonorchiasis is known to be present and raw fish consumption is a common. Using a simple random sampling approach, stool was collected from 841 participants over 6 years old for coprological examination, and a questionnaire measured knowledge, attitudes, and practices with regard to clonorchiasis in 757 participants over 15 years old. Univariable and multivariable logistic regression models were run to identify risk factors for infection with C. sinensis. The overall prevalence of C. sinensis infection was 40. 4%, with commune prevalences ranging between 26. 5% and 53. 3%. In the final model, males were significantly more likely to be infected with C. sinensis (OR 2. 00; 95% CI 1. 31 3. 05). Recent (i. e. last year) consumption of raw fish (OR 8. 00, 95% CI 4. 78 13. 36), low education level (OR 5. 57; 95% CI 2. 37 13. 07), lack of treatment (OR 1. 82, 95% CI 1. 15 2. 89), being between 19 to 39 years old (OR 6. 46; 95% CI 1. 25 33. 37), and the presence of an unhygienic toilet (OR 2. 74, 95% CI 1. 53 4. 92) were significantly associated with C. sinensis infection. This study demonstrated a high prevalence of C. sinensis infection in rural communities in northern Vietnam. Thus, control measures including, mass drug administration for those communes should be applied to reduce the prevalence. Moreover, specific health education activities should be developed for risk groups in C. sinensis endemic areas. Explanation: water human exposure transmission people are that infections community studies snail intermediate snails parasite species inschistosomiasis liver diseases humans as intervention strategies this can interventions have information on results questions data surveys cysticercosis endeicS parasitic worm found man population parasites s other also important food habit / we may used methods parasitsis findings environmental impact these reported schistpatients affected area helminth cases but not only confirmed Schistosoma mansoni China limited number one has been previously identified potential new diagnosis or our understanding many such effective at index country prazine ans well investigation current finding
Skin problems cause significant sickness in communities with poor living conditions, but they have received less attention in national or global health studies because of their low mortality rates. In many developing regions, the prevalence of parasitic skin diseases among schoolchildren is not reported. Previous studies thus have attempted to identify risk factors for these conditions using the frequentist approach. This study aimed to assess the occurrence and risk factors of skin infections among rural schoolchildren in southern Ethiopia by combining a frequentist and a Bayesian approach. Using three-stage random sampling, we assessed 864 schoolchildren aged 7 14 years from the Wonago district in southern Ethiopia. We detected potential risk factors for scabies, tungiasis, and tinea infections and recorded their hygienic practices and socio-demographic information. The frequentist model revealed a clustering effect of 8. 8% at the classroom level and an insignificant effect at the school level. The Bayesian model revealed a clustering effect of 16% at the classroom level and 5. 3% at the school level. Almost three-fourths of the sample had at least one type of skin problem, and boys were at higher overall risk than girls (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 1. 55 [95% Bayesian credible interval [BCI] 1. 01, 2. 28). Risk factors included unclean fingernails (aOR 1. 85 [95% BCI 1. 08, 2. 97]); not washing the body (aOR 1. 90 [95% BCI 1. 21, 2. 85]) and hair (aOR 3. 07 [95% BCI 1. 98, 4. 57]) with soap every week; sharing a bed (aOR 1. 97 [95% BCI 1. 27, 2. 89]), clothes (aOR 5. 65 [95% BCI 3. 31, 9. 21]), or combs (aOR 3. 65 [95% BCI 2. 28, 5. 53]); and living in a poor household (aOR 1. 76 [95% BCI 1. 03, 2. 83]). Washing legs and feet with soap daily was identified as a protective factor for each of the three skin diseases (aOR 0. 23 [95% BCI 0. 15, 0. 33]). We observed high variation in skin problems at the classroom level, indicating the presence of shared risk factors in these locations. The findings suggest the need to improve children s personal hygiene via health education by schoolteachers and health workers. Explanation: community that interventions are disease households associated knowledge on child age home toilwater contact human infection public use sanitation intervention schools control data inthis more people used methods results questions survey can be found out transmission parasite burden between population two such where it known how well our understanding social impact large scale effective treatment coverage mass childhood schistosomiasis endemic countries through strategies development has important outcomes village dityA? evidence malaria parasitiasis area may settings which affected tall parasites wse common soil exposure within villages local residents who often adults infected
Pathogenic mycobacteria actively dysregulate protective host immune signalling pathways during infection to drive the formation of permissive granuloma microenvironments. Dynamic regulation of host microRNA (miRNA) expression is a conserved feature of mycobacterial infections across host-pathogen pairings. Here we examine the role of miR-206 in the zebrafish model of Mycobacterium marinum infection, which allows investigation of the early stages of granuloma formation. We find miR-206 is upregulated following infection by pathogenic M. marinum and that antagomir-mediated knockdown of miR-206 is protective against infection. We observed striking upregulation of cxcl12a and cxcr4b in infected miR-206 knockdown zebrafish embryos and live imaging revealed enhanced recruitment of neutrophils to sites of infection. We used CRISPR / Cas9-mediated knockdown of cxcl12a and cxcr4b expression and AMD3100 inhibition of Cxcr4 to show that the enhanced neutrophil response and reduced bacterial burden caused by miR-206 knockdown was dependent on the Cxcl12 / Cxcr4 signalling axis. Together, our data illustrate a pathway through which pathogenic mycobacteria induce host miR-206 expression to suppress Cxcl12 / Cxcr4 signalling and prevent protective neutrophil recruitment to granulomas. Explanation: disease macrophages cells with bacteria this for macrophage inflammatory gene inflammation cell responses fish are an as critical mice models development studies The control genes regulatory miRNAs human tuberculosis pathogenesis mechanisms these important function anti TNF IL bone marrow fibrosis lung tissue levels or In their A mouse skin innate immunity associated cytokines 1 such study have be more known key roles involved myeloid specific wil mRNA other also found can health cellular factors This chemokine CXCL2 cytokine production may non functional previously results were signaling tat genetic loss induced lethal severe experimental animal survival time not
Robustness in developing and homeostatic tissues is supported by various types of spatiotemporal cell-to-cell interactions. Although live imaging and cell tracking are powerful in providing direct evidence of cell coordination rules, extracting and comparing these rules across many tissues with potentially different length and timescales of coordination requires a versatile framework of analysis. Here we demonstrate that graph neural network (GNN) models are suited for this purpose, by showing how they can be applied to predict cell fate in tissues and utilized to infer the cell interactions governing the multicellular dynamics. Analyzing the live mammalian epidermis data, where spatiotemporal graphs constructed from cell tracks and cell contacts are given as inputs, GNN discovers distinct neighbor cell fate coordination rules that depend on the region of the body. This approach demonstrates how the GNN framework is powerful in inferring general cell interaction rules from live data without prior knowledge of the signaling involved. Explanation: cells networks model development time tissue patterns regulation mechanisms complex system cellular level Get We process their growth rate one regulatory gene expression pattern an which may The not yet known information about such have our results genes function between it regulate more or processes pathways important role during formation new molecular mechanism control biological signals pathway activity specific G proteins intercellular communication key regulators In also found ability 1 signalling molecules signal into same but required genetic circuits systems two together at self similar other form developmental Nuse A / response changes when those were previously unknown
Existing studies have demonstrated that dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) is involved in the initiation and progression of cancer. Many efforts have been devoted to identify microRNAs as potential biomarkers for cancer diagnosis, prognosis and therapeutic targets. With the rapid development of miRNA sequencing technology, a vast amount of miRNA expression data for multiple cancers has been collected. These invaluable data repositories provide new paradigms to explore the relationship between miRNAs and cancer. Thus, there is an urgent need to explore the complex cancer-related miRNA-gene patterns by integrating multi-omics data in a pan-cancer paradigm. In this study, we present a tensor sparse canonical correlation analysis (TSCCA) method for identifying cancer-related miRNA-gene modules across multiple cancers. TSCCA is able to overcome the drawbacks of existing solutions and capture both the cancer-shared and specific miRNA-gene co-expressed modules with better biological interpretations. We comprehensively evaluate the performance of TSCCA using a set of simulated data and matched miRNA / gene expression data across 33 cancer types from the TCGA database. We uncover several dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance. These modules can advance our understanding of miRNA regulatory mechanisms of cancer and provide insights into miRNA-based treatments for cancer. Explanation: disease network associated genes are known pathway The be cell pathways information Tone such tumor these may miR target discovery novel clinical blood level proteins functional networks human tissue key signaling angiogenesis growth factors et results were not found their mechanism use genetic mutations non function also patients molecular biology cells model which tumors driver transforming microRNA 1 mRNA hsa other through angiogenic VEGF endothelial angiosarcoma all angilet A vascular targeted VEGFs protein could result treatment anti drug response models more targeting role This on high Blood capillary levels circulating biomarker's -reported melanoma BRAF V600E
Synaptic efficacy is subjected to activity-dependent changes on short- and long time scales. While short-term changes decay over minutes, long-term modifications last from hours up to a lifetime and are thought to constitute the basis of learning and memory. Both plasticity mechanisms have been studied extensively but how their interaction shapes synaptic dynamics is little known. To investigate how both short- and long-term plasticity together control the induction of synaptic depression and potentiation, we used numerical simulations and mathematical analysis of a calcium-based model, where pre- and postsynaptic activity induces calcium transients driving synaptic long-term plasticity. We found that the model implementing known synaptic short-term dynamics in the calcium transients can be successfully fitted to long-term plasticity data obtained in visual- and somatosensory cortex. Interestingly, the impact of spike-timing and firing rate changes on plasticity occurs in the prevalent firing rate range, which is different in both cortical areas considered here. Our findings suggest that short- and long-term plasticity are together tuned to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics such as firing rates. Explanation: neurons with synapses temporal information network models) new brain this for our spiking neural cells excitatory / by mechanism use more these may function between process at system properties (1 s large scale neuronal current knowledge cell number one important dynamic also ability et it has previously results neuron response networks predict novel input stimuli inputs or not responses when synapse level two spine LTP hippocampal CA1 pyramidal recurrent inhibition high frequency stimulation induced spines LTD processes were hippocampus could learn complex forms circuits predicted structure after activation patterns show same signaling pathways effects connections many other they
Bats are the natural reservoir host for a number of zoonotic viruses, including Hendra virus (HeV) which causes severe clinical disease in humans and other susceptible hosts. Our understanding of the ability of bats to avoid clinical disease following infection with viruses such as HeV has come predominantly from in vitro studies focusing on innate immunity. Information on the early host response to infection in vivo is lacking and there is no comparative data on responses in bats compared with animals that succumb to disease. In this study, we examined the sites of HeV replication and the immune response of infected Australian black flying foxes and ferrets at 12, 36 and 60 hours post exposure (hpe). Viral antigen was detected at 60 hpe in bats and was confined to the lungs whereas in ferrets there was evidence of widespread viral RNA and antigen by 60 hpe. The mRNA expression of IFNs revealed antagonism of type I and III IFNs and a significant increase in the chemokine, CXCL10, in bat lung and spleen following infection. In ferrets, there was an increase in the transcription of IFN in the spleen following infection. Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS / MS) on lung tissue from bats and ferrets was performed at 0 and 60 hpe to obtain a global overview of viral and host protein expression. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis of immune pathways revealed that six pathways, including a number involved in cell mediated immunity were more likely to be upregulated in bat lung compared to ferrets. GO analysis also revealed enrichment of the type I IFN signaling pathway in bats and ferrets. This study contributes important comparative data on differences in the dissemination of HeV and the first to provide comparative data on the activation of immune pathways in bats and ferrets in vivo following infection. Explanation: cells entry into model human respiratory epithelial barrier function proteins antiviral cellular receptor use known these similar genes bour mice macrophages key pathogen specific interferon system against have A influenza B species 1 We previously mammalian conserved mechanisms used receptors but not mammals related health or animal models infections pathogenesis their control work As well pathogens susceptibility gene role unique many different bacteria infectious diseases Ebola Virus aire ebus can same found increased blood macrophage inflammatory cytokines may protective mouse brain tissues after; it across novel EBOV highly pathogenic experimental all those critical Rabrabies transmission
Evidence from both GWAS and clinical observation has suggested that certain psychiatric, metabolic, and autoimmune diseases are heterogeneous, comprising multiple subtypes with distinct genomic etiologies and Polygenic Risk Scores (PRS). However, the presence of subtypes within many phenotypes is frequently unknown. We present CLiP (Correlated Liability Predictors), a method to detect heterogeneity in single GWAS cohorts. CLiP calculates a weighted sum of correlations between SNPs contributing to a PRS on the case / control liability scale. We demonstrate mathematically and through simulation that among i. i. d. homogeneous cases generated by a liability threshold model, significant anti-correlations are expected between otherwise independent predictors due to ascertainment on the hidden liability score. In the presence of heterogeneity from distinct etiologies, confounding by covariates, or mislabeling, these correlation patterns are altered predictably. We further extend our method to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in applications such as transcriptome-wide association, and CLiP-Y for quantitative phenotypes, where there is no clear distinction between cases and controls. Through simulations, we demonstrate that CLiP and its extensions reliably distinguish between homogeneous and heterogeneous cohorts when the PRS explains as low as 3% of variance on the liability scale and cohorts comprise 50, 000 − 100, 000 samples, an increasingly practical size for modern GWAS. We apply CLiP to heterogeneity detection in schizophrenia cohorts totaling > 50, 000 cases and controls collected by the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium. We observe significant heterogeneity in mega-analysis of the combined PGC data (p-value 8. 54 × 0 − 4), as well as in individual cohorts meta-analyzed using Fisher s method (p-value 0. 03), based on significantly associated variants. We also apply CLiP-Y to detect heterogeneity in neuroticism in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank and detect heterogeneity with a p-value of 1. 68 × 10 − 9. Scores were not significantly reduced when partitioning by known subclusters (Depression and Worry), suggesting that these factors are not the primary source of observed heterogeneity. Explanation: genetic risk gene discovery disease complex studies can be common causal genes effect models have more than results genome major susceptibility loci identified novel biological network pathways may non important findings across which large one specific mechanisms explain potential effects previously The phenotype associations this trait their all but patients reported health severity blood networks other likely functional somatic cell expression causative variant predicted future work same key role thus found brain derived disorder mental illness new candidate pathogenic human evidence subjects et al high statistical methods provide whole development they prediction result A form different cause people traits burden
Cell culture remains as the golden standard for primary isolation of viruses in clinical specimens. In the current practice, researchers have to recognize the cytopathic effects (CPE) induced by virus infection and subsequently use virus-specific monoclonal antibody to confirm the presence of virus. Considering the broad applications of neural network in various fields, we aimed to utilize convolutional neural networks (CNN) to shorten the timing required for CPE identification and to improve the assay sensitivity. Based on the characteristics of influenza-induced CPE, a CNN model with larger sizes of filters and max-pooling kernels was constructed in the absence of transfer learning. A total of 601 images from mock-infected and influenza-infected MDCK cells were used to train the model. The performance of the model was tested by using extra 400 images and the percentage of correct recognition was 99. 75%. To further examine the limit of our model in evaluating the changes of CPE overtime, additional 1190 images from a new experiment were used and the recognition rates at 16 hour (hr), 28 hr, and 40 hr post virus infection were 71. 80%, 98. 25%, and 87. 46%, respectively. The specificity of our model, examined by images of MDCK cells infected by six other non-influenza viruses, was 100%. Hence, a simple CNN model was established to enhance the identification of influenza virus in clinical practice. Explanation: that cell is data human detection accuracy can be high this are not results analysis method viral RNA host more than an image classification models 1 / We samples early diagnostic test methods novel deep knowledge how well known which previously work et ability has accurate these prediction highly machine learn disease diagnosis system development 2 hands out study all information hand features important but also it whole or better one set up key laboratory testing their experiments when predict infections rapid positive cases even higher type two antibodies against people sensitive detecting studies then humans unknown proteins such patients
Herpesviruses are known to encode a number of inhibitors of host cell death, including RIP Homotypic Interaction Motif (RHIM) -containing proteins. Varicella zoster virus (VZV) is a member of the alphaherpesvirus subfamily and is responsible for causing chickenpox and shingles. We have identified a novel viral RHIM in the VZV capsid triplex protein, open reading frame (ORF) 20, that acts as a host cell death inhibitor. Like the human cellular RHIMs in RIPK1 and RIPK3 that stabilise the necrosome in TNF-induced necroptosis, and the viral RHIM in M45 from murine cytomegalovirus that inhibits cell death, the ORF20 RHIM is capable of forming fibrillar functional amyloid complexes. Notably, the ORF20 RHIM forms hybrid amyloid complexes with human ZBP1, a cytoplasmic sensor of viral nucleic acid. Although VZV can inhibit TNF-induced necroptosis, the ORF20 RHIM does not appear to be responsible for this inhibition. In contrast, the ZBP1 pathway is identified as important for VZV infection. Mutation of the ORF20 RHIM renders the virus incapable of efficient spread in ZBP1-expressing HT-29 cells, an effect which can be reversed by the inhibition of caspases. Therefore we conclude that the VZV ORF20 RHIM is important for preventing ZBP1-driven apoptosis during VZV infection, and propose that it mediates this effect by sequestering ZBP1 into decoy amyloid assemblies. Explanation: herpes varicella HIV Kaposi's disease IHSV DNA 1 tegentry membrane ULBinfected kinase activity binding interaction also killing pathways antiviral response gene expression or replication virion envelope associated receptor X The HHV gB virions gB herpesviruses latency block function IE5 KSHV K1 lethal kinases complex anti factors may A their these Herpes simplex type 2 infections activation key genes prevent HCMV ICPour but on critical herpeslife / EBV receptors interactions between two has mechanism use studies herpetic lytic cycle process many other they found previously USIL signaling phosphorylation sites conserved
Infectious disease risk is driven by three interrelated components: exposure, hazard, and vulnerability. For schistosomiasis, exposure occurs through contact with water, which is often tied to daily activities. Water contact, however, does not imply risk unless the environmental hazard of snails and parasites is also present in the water. By increasing reliance on hazardous activities and environments, socio-economic vulnerability can hinder reductions in exposure to a hazard. We aimed to quantify the contributions of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability to the presence and intensity of Schistosoma haematobium re-infection. In 13 villages along the Senegal River, we collected parasitological data from 821 school-aged children, survey data from 411 households where those children resided, and ecological data from all 24 village water access sites. We fit mixed-effects logistic and negative binomial regressions with indices of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability as explanatory variables of Schistosoma haematobium presence and intensity, respectively, controlling for demographic variables. Using multi-model inference to calculate the relative importance of each component of risk, we found that hazard (Ʃwi = 0. 95) was the most important component of S. haematobium presence, followed by vulnerability (Ʃwi = 0. 91). Exposure (Ʃwi = 1. 00) was the most important component of S. haematobium intensity, followed by hazard (Ʃwi = 0. 77). Model averaging quantified associations between each infection outcome and indices of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability, revealing a positive association between hazard and infection presence (OR = 1. 49, 95% CI 1. 12, 1. 97), and a positive association between exposure and infection intensity (RR 2. 59 3. 86, depending on the category; all 95% CIs above 1) Our findings underscore the linkages between social (exposure and vulnerability) and environmental (hazard) processes in the acquisition and accumulation of S. haematobium infection. This approach highlights the importance of implementing both social and environmental interventions to complement mass drug administration. Explanation: health impact human schistmorbidity control transmission community prevalence are this high burden endemic malaria parasite communities associated risks factors have people exposed household study areas were intervention strategies development public insnail population level exposures spatial epidemiological knowledge information an more these results mapping studies The at area significant outcomes may be used models our intermediate countries settings such environment into their related diseases when it has management potential or landscape vector distribution system s well known parasitic infections non occurrence within humans living conditions different levels setting out major problem? questions assessment situation one locations sanitation housing
Nigeria continues to experience ever increasing annual outbreaks of Lassa fever (LF). The World Health Organization has recently declared Lassa virus (LASV) as a priority pathogen for accelerated research leading to a renewed international effort to develop relevant animal models of disease and effective countermeasures to reduce LF morbidity and mortality in endemic West African countries. A limiting factor in evaluating medical countermeasures against LF is a lack of well characterized animal models outside of those based on infection with LASV strain Josiah originating form Sierra Leone, circa 1976. Here we genetically characterize five recent LASV isolates collected from the 2018 outbreak in Nigeria. Three isolates were further evaluated in vivo and despite being closely related and from the same spatial / geographic region of Nigeria, only one of the three isolates proved lethal in strain 13 guinea pigs and non-human primates (NHP). Additionally, this isolate exhibited atypical pathogenesis characteristics in the NHP model, most notably respiratory failure, not commonly described in hemorrhagic cases of LF. These results suggest that there is considerable phenotypic heterogeneity in LASV infections in Nigeria, which leads to a multitude of pathogenesis characteristics that could account for differences between subclinical and lethal LF infections. Most importantly, the development of disease models using currently circulating LASV strains in West Africa are critical for the evaluation of potential vaccines and medical countermeasures. Explanation: Guinea Ebola viral challenge studies vaccine candidate viruses Sudan severe clinical laboratory mouse data mice infected experimental used study host immune protective immunity by vaccination efficacy have animals survival humans protection experiments an more than can be new high risk health system large scale developed simian monkey species known these monkeys but also our work In control or use small rhesus macaque previously 1% -when was important diseases EVD transmission fatal outcome IAduring similar other We vaccinated key infectious deadly faire's owl it into two novel findings death alikely role SIV replication cell
Schistosomes are blood dwelling parasites that affect more than 260 million people globally, and over 800 million people are at risk of infection in 74 countries. It causes acute and chronic debilitating diseases. The parasite is reported to alter the hematological and biochemical parameters in humans. Therefore, this study was aimed to evaluate the hematological and biochemical changes in S. mansoni infected adult patients compared to apparently healthy controls. A comparative cross-sectional study was conducted at Haik Primary Hospital from February to April 2021. One hundred and eighty study participants consisting of 90 S. mansoni infected patients and 90 apparently healthy controls were recruited using systematic random sampling method. Socio-demographic characteristics and other variables were collected using questionnaires. Stool sample was examined microscopically to detect S. mansoni infection using direct wet mount and Kato Katz technique. In apparently healthy controls, S. mansoni infection was rule out using direct wet mount and Kato Katz technique. Moreover, the intensity of S. mansoni infection was assessed using Kato Katz technique. Blood sample was collected from each study participant to determine the hematological and biochemical profiles. Data were entered in to Epi Data version 3. 1 and analyzed using SPSS version 26. 0 software. Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Shapiro Wilk normality tests were done to assess the distribution of continuous variables. The Mann-Whitney U test and Kruskal Wallis H test was done to compare the differences among nonnormally distributed variables between S. mansoni infected patients and healthy controls. P-values < 0. 05 at 95% CI were considered as statistically significant. The mean age (SD) of S. mansoni infected patients and apparently healthy controls was 30. 33 (± 12. 26) and 31. 2 (± 12. 85) years old, respectively. The prevalence of anemia, and thrombocytopenia among S. mansoni infected patients were 23. 3% and 26. 7%, respectively. Erythrocytic sedimentation rate (ESR) was significantly elevated among S. mansoni infected patients than apparently healthy controls. The median white blood cell count, red blood cell count, red blood cell indices, and platelet indices were significantly lower among S. mansoni infected patients compared to apparently healthy controls (P < 0. 05). On the other hand, the median eosinophil count was significantly elevated among S. mansoni infected patients compared to apparently healthy controls (P < 0. 05). This study also showed significantly elevated values of serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and direct bilirubin and lower albumin, total cholesterol and triglycerides among S. mansoni infected patients compared to apparently healthy controls. Kruskal Wallis H test showed a significant difference in the median of most hematological and biochemical parameters between moderate and heavy intensity of infection with light intensity of infection and apparently healthy controls. The findings of this study showed significantly altered hematological values and liver function tests among S. mansoni infected patients compared to apparently healthy controls. Therefore, screening of S. mansoni infected patients for various hematological and biochemical parameters and providing treatment to the underlying abnormalities is very crucial to avoid schistosomiasis associated morbidity and mortality. Explanation: schistSchistosoma tegmen disease health studies laboratory diagnostic tools parasitova detection stool microscopy parasitic by methods used data analysis we have eggs worm infections can be diagnosis helminth species level found an important human intermediate host worms transmission control strategies on these endemic Sudan water bodies results may not known factors such investigations malaria kDNA egg identification high IL cytokines levels or severe anaemia affected eosinophils eosinal persons through which specific immune stronginambody inflammatory biomarkers eosinophilia related their non studied cases increased our knowledge s well different community helminthiasis caused eosinophilic
Antibodies targeting the hepatitis C virus (HCV) envelope glycoprotein E2 are associated with delayed disease progression, and these antibodies can also facilitate spontaneous clearance of infection in some individuals. However, many infected people demonstrate low titer and delayed anti-E2 antibody responses. Since a goal of HCV vaccine development is induction of high titers of anti-E2 antibodies, it is important to define the mechanisms underlying these suboptimal antibody responses. By staining lymphocytes with a cocktail of soluble E2 (sE2) glycoproteins, we detected HCV E2-specific (sE2 +) B cells directly ex vivo at multiple acute infection timepoints in 29 HCV-infected subjects with a wide range of anti-E2 IgG titers, including 17 persistently infected subjects and 12 subjects with spontaneous clearance of infection. We performed multi-dimensional flow cytometric analysis of sE2 + and E2-nonspecific (sE2-) class-switched B cells (csBC). In sE2 + csBC from both persistence and clearance subjects, frequencies of resting memory B cells (rMBC) were reduced, frequencies of activated MBC (actMBC) and tissue-like MBC (tlMBC) were increased, and expression of FCRL5, an IgG receptor, was significantly upregulated. Across all subjects, plasma anti-E2 IgG levels were positively correlated with frequencies of sE2 + rMBC and sE2 + actMBC, while anti-E2 IgG levels were negatively correlated with levels of FCRL5 expression on sE2 + rMBC and PD-1 expression on sE2 + actMBC. Upregulation of FCRL5 on sE2 + rMBC and upregulation of PD-1 on sE2 + actMBC may limit anti-E2 antibody production in vivo. Strategies that limit upregulation of these molecules could potentially generate higher titers of protective antibodies against HCV or other pathogens. Explanation: immune response viral bfor host cell immunity HIV / by have as antiviral human blood level serum factors binding affinity neutralizing e2 natural Abs epitope BThe during infections humoral which sera induced cross bind more treatment our studies this vaccination strategies developed therapeutic HBV patients non viruses entry into naturally exposure epitopes such vaccines potential use not be ability virions proteins their cellular receptors interaction between model system understanding mechanism study found humans liver chronic health protection related key Ibroadly nfunction has previously exposed new type two years highly sensitive circulating EBV group develop early
